matrix of self-looped GS. The initial homophily embedding
matrix X0
S ∈RN×d is randomly initialized from a normal
distribution, and d is the dimension of embedding. We can
obtain the final social homophily representation XS after
several layers of GCN.
Shared-private Representation Learning
Graph-based
representation
learning
captures
the
co-
occurrence relationship of users at the user level and cascade
level, however, it does not enable further analysis of context
interactions within cascades. Therefore, due to the excellent
performance of the LSTM in sequential tasks such as natural
language processing, we apply two LSTM modules to learn
the social and global context interactions within cascades,
respectively.
We hold the belief that there exists a hidden common fea-
ture between the macro-prediction and the micro-prediction
tasks, with the potential to enhance the performance of each
task individually. Drawing inspiration from the principles of
multi-task learning (Liu, Qiu, and Huang 2017), we propose
a shared LSTM architecture aimed at capturing these shared
characteristics between the two tasks. Furthermore, to tackle
the issue of feature redundancy, we introduce a combination
of adversarial training and orthogonality constraints.
Private Representation Learning
We utilize the LSTM
to model the cascade diffusion process sequentially, where a
hidden state is employed to capture the diffusion history.
The update of each LSTM unit can be shortened as:
ht = LSTM(ht−1, xt, θp),
(5)
where ht ∈Rd is the hidden state and xt ∈Rd is the input
at the current time step. θp represents all the parameters in
LSTM.
Based on the defined LSTM, we can compute the repre-
sentation of the context interaction for the user social ho-
mophily XS and user global interaction matrix XD as fol-
lows:
hcas
t
= LSTM(hcas
t−1, xd
t , θcas)
huser
t
= LSTM(huser
t−1 , xs
t, θuser),
(6)
where LSTM(., θ) is defined as Eq. 5.
Thus, the task-specific embeddings are represented as
Hcas ∈RN×d and Huser ∈RN×d.
Shared Representation Learning
Inspired by the gated
mechanisms used in LSTM, we design a novel shared-
LSTM, that takes XD and XS as the input. The detail of
the module is described as follows:
ft = σ(xD
t−1Wf + xS
t−1Uf + ht−1Vf + bf),
it = σ(xD
t−1Wi + xS
t−1Ui + ht−1Vi + bi),
ot = σ(xD
t−1Wo + xS
t−1Uo + ht−1Vo + bo),
˜ct = tanh(xD
t−1Wc + xS
t−1Uc + ht−1Vc + bc),
ct = ˜ct · it + ct−1 · ft,
ht = ot · tanh ct,
(7)
where σ is the sigmoid function. W∗∈Rd×d, U∗∈Rd×d,
V∗∈Rd×d and b∗∈Rd are trainable parameters. The input
gate it controls the amount of new information added to the
hidden state, while the forget gate ft regulates the amount
of information discarded from the previous memory cells ct.
Additionally, the output gate ot determines the amount of in-
formation to be output in the hidden state ht. By integrating
the forget gate, input gate, update memory unit, and output
gate, the shared LSTM can effectively handle the intricate
relationship between micro-features and macro-features.
We finally obtain a comprehensive representation of
shared features between the macro-prediction task and
micro-prediction task from the shared LSTM, which is de-
noted as Hshare ∈RN×d.
Adversarial Training
Although the shared-private LSTM
is designed to learn the shared and task-specific features,
there is no guarantee that shared features can not be pre-
served in private feature space, or vice versa. Therefore, a
simple principle can be applied to shared LSTM that a re-
liable shared feature should primarily consist of common
information without any task-specific information. Inspired
by adversarial networks, we introduce adversarial training to
solve this problem.
A task discriminator is used to map the representation
into a probability distribution, estimating which tasks the en-
coded feature comes from.
D(h, θD) = softmax(b + Uh),
(8)
where U ∈Rd×d is a learnable parameter and b ∈Rd is a
bias.
To prevent task-specific features from infiltrating the
shared representation, we design a task adversarial loss, de-
noted as Ladv. This loss function is employed to train the
model in such a way that the shared features generated are
not easily predictable by a classifier in terms of their corre-
sponding tasks. Formally, the task adversarial loss, Ladv, is
defined as follows:
Ladv = min
θshare max
θD
2
X
k=1
N
X
n=1
(log D(hk
n)+log(1−D(hshare
n
))),
(9)
where θshare represents all the parameters in Shared-LSTM,
and k denotes the task type (either macro or micro). The op-
timization process involves a min-max framework, with the
underlying concept being that the shared LSTM generates
a representation to intentionally confuse the task discrimi-
nator. As the training progresses, the shared feature extrac-
tor and task discriminator gradually reach a point of con-
vergence, beyond which achieving additional enhancements
becomes challenging. As a result, the task discriminator be-
comes progressively incapable of distinguishing among var-
ious tasks. This convergence indicates the successful acqui-
sition of shared feature generation by the feature extractor,
resulting in shared features that exhibit indistinguishability
across all tasks.
Orthogonality Constraints
It is worth noting that the
above model has a potential disadvantage. The disadvantage
is that task-invariant features can appear in both shared and
private representations. To alleviate this drawback, we in-
troduce orthogonality constraints, which penalize redundant
latent representations and encourage the shared and private
The Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI-24)
8574
