utilizes the outcomes of micro-prediction to guide macro-
prediction, lacking a comprehensive recognition of the mu-
tually reinforcing synergy inherent in these two tasks. Sim-
ilarly, while DMT-LIC (Chen et al. 2019a) incorporates a
shared representation layer to capture cascade graph repre-
sentations and diffusion processes, it fails to address the is-
sue of potential contamination and redundancy between the
shared features and task-specific features. Moreover, both
methods primarily concentrate on user interactions within
individual cascades, neglecting the intricate interactions and
dynamics among cascades at a global level.
To address the above challenges, we propose MINDS, a
streamlined and efficient model for Multi-scale INformation
DiffuSion prediction. Specifically, at the macro level, we
construct sequential hypergraphs to effectively capture the
interactions and dynamics among cascades. From a global
perspective, modeling complex interactions among users
and cascades is consistent with the concept of the hyper-
graph. Constructing sequential hypergraphs by dividing the
time period into sequential time windows can accurately de-
scribe the dynamic evolution of the cascades. At the mi-
cro level, we focus on understanding the social homophily
among users within social networks. We design a shared
module to learn shared features for both macro and micro
tasks. Furthermore, we incorporate adversarial training and
orthogonality constraints to mitigate feature redundancy and
contamination between shared and task-specific features. In
summary, the main contributions of this paper are three-fold:
• We propose an effective and straightforward model that
tackles both macro and micro prediction, leveraging their
mutual reinforcement to enhance overall performance.
• We introduce an approach that captures the interactions
and dynamics among cascades by modeling information
diffusion in sequential hypergraphs. To address feature
redundancy, we incorporate adversarial training and or-
thogonality constraints.
• We conducted comprehensive experiments to evaluate
our model’s performance. The results demonstrate its su-
periority over state-of-the-art methods in both macro and
micro prediction.
Problem Formulation
To commence, we present the social graph and diffusion hy-
pergraphs that constitute the foundation for diffusion pre-
diction within our model. The social graph is denoted as
GS = (U, E), where U is the user set and E is the edge
set. Each edge (ui, uj) ∈E represents a social relationship
between user ui and uj. The observed diffusion cascades
D = {d1, d2, . . . , dM}, |D| = N are split into T subsets ac-
cording to timestamps for constructing sequential diffusion
hypergraphs GD = {Gt
D|t = 1, 2, . . . , T}, Gt
D = (U t, Et),
where U t is the user set and Et is the hyperedge set. In
the diffusion hypergraph, users participate in the same cas-
cade and are connected by a hyperedge, in other words, a
hyperedge represents a cascade. Note that the set of nodes
connected by hyperedge is different in each hypergraph. It
means that if ui participates in dm during the t-th time inter-
val, then ui being connected to hyperedge em only occurs in
diffusion hypergraph Gt
D.
In this work, we aim to address both the macroscopic
and microscopic diffusion prediction problems based on the
above introductions.
Macroscopic Diffusion Prediction: Given a social graph
GS, diffusion hypergraphs GD and an observed diffusion
sequence dm = {(um
i , tm
i )|um
i ∈U}, estimate the final size
|dm| of cascade dm.
Microscopic Diffusion Prediction: Given a social graph
GS, diffusion hypergraphs GD and an observed diffusion
sequence dm = {(um
i , tm
i )|um
i
∈U}, predict which user
will participate in dm in the next step.
Method
In this section, we will provide a comprehensive introduc-
tion to the proposed model. The architectural overview of
the proposed model is depicted in Fig. 2, which comprises
four primary modules:
User Global Interactive Learning Module: This module
is responsible for extracting user preferences at each time
interval and characterizing the dynamic changes of cascades.
A fusion layer at the cascade level facilitates this process.
User Social Homophily Learning Module: It captures
users’ social relationship at the individual user level using
Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN).
Shared-private Representation Learning Module: This
module learns task-specific representations and shared rep-
resentations to facilitate diffusion prediction.
Diffusion Prediction Module: This module concatenates
task-specific features with shared representation for macro-
scopic and microscopic diffusion prediction, respectively.
User Global Interactive Learning
In order to simultaneously account for global interactions
among cascades and dynamic changes of cascades. On the
basis of the constructed sequential diffusion hypergraphs,
we introduce the HGNN to learn the user global interactions
of each independent time interval at the cascade level, and
add a fusion layer between two continuous time intervals to
model the dynamics of cascades.
Hypergraph Neural Network
At each time interval, we
model the interactions of users through HGNN. The process
of HGNN is illustrated in Fig. 3. For a simple graph, graph
convolution takes the aggregation of its neighbor vertices to
get a new representation of the central vertex. The informa-
tion of vertices is passed through edges in a simple graph.
Similarly, hyperedges play a role in information transmis-
sion in a hypergraph. The message aggregating in the hy-
pergraph can be summarized in a two-stage procedure: 1)
Vertex-to-Hyperedge; 2) Hyperedge-to-Vertex.
Vertex-to-Hyperedge. Given a diffusion hypergraph Gt
D,
the first stage of HGNN aims to update the feature yj,t of
hyperedge et
j by aggregating the information of all its con-
nected vertices, which can be defined as:
yl
j,t = σ

wet
j ·
X
ut
i∈Nv(et
j)
xl
i,t
|Nv(et
j)|

,
(1)
The Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI-24)
8572
