A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances       27:5


and dies out. Even in conventional information fields, content such as magazines, newspapers, and
academic journals are digitized and consumed in online platforms. Understanding the inner drive
that determines the spread of information items is nontrivial and important for many real-world
applications such as advertising, decision making, and caching strategy.
  The spread and diffusion of information items are featured by various endogenous or exogenous
factors. For example, in social networking platforms like Twitter and Weibo, users spontaneously
post tweets, follow other users, “like” or comment on tweets, and most importantly, retweet other
users’ (re)tweets, which will show in the feed of her/his followers (potential future retweeters of
this tweet). In contrast, user-driven resharing mechanisms can also be triggered by social influ-
ence [5] and by external influences like burst events [45].

2.2  Problem Definitions

Information items/cascades are transient, sparse, and biased data. The prediction of information
item/cascade is challenging and in some cases, they are in fact unpredictable [33, 144]. To bet-
ter characterize the complex nature of information items/cascades and to explore under which
circumstances the problem can be tackled, here we apply threefold categorization: (i) classifica-
tion/regression; (ii) before/after publication; and (iii) granularity of the prediction, i.e., a macro-
level prediction (collective behavior) or micro-level prediction (individual behavior).

   2.2.1   Classification versus Regression. The popularity prediction of information items/cascades
can be defined as either a classification problem or a regression problem. Consider a piece of infor-
mation that can be disseminated by other users in a social network. We use information diffusion
to denote the process of dissemination. Therefore, the popularity prediction problem is to predict
the final audience, attention, or influence of this information, given its initial state.

   Definition 2.1 (Popularity Prediction). Given M information item {I1, I2, . . . , IM } and a specific
measurement of popularity for each item Ii published by authoru0 at time t0, popularity prediction
aims at predicting the popularity Pi (tp) of Ii at a future prediction time tp.

  When it comes to the classification tasks, the exact value of Pi (tp) is not required. Instead, one
aims to predict whether an information item will be popular or not, given a predefined abso-
lute/relative threshold. For example, some models predict whether an item gains reshares [149,
155], or whether an item will burst in the near future [39, 46]—both of which can be treated as
a binary classification problem. Another line of works predefine several popularity intervals, and
then predict which interval an item is most likely to fall into [61, 81, 134, 135], converting the prob-
lem to a classical multi-class classification task. As for regression models, they primarily predict the
exact popularity value Pi (tp) (e.g., retweets and citations) that an item will gain in the future [3,
11, 106, 181].
  Generally speaking, classification tasks are relatively easier than regression tasks. [12] showed
that with only four types of features, classification accuracy can reach 84% but perform poorly on
regression task. Although the intuition behind formulating regression is more natural and provides
a fine-grained scope to analyze which factors affect the future popularity and lead information
items to success, precise regression prediction often requires far more information regarding items
and users, which therefore implies a higher complexity [60]. In addition, it suffers from undesirable
issues such as overfitting, inductive bias, and prediction error accumulations [214]. We note many
of the models we surveyed can be easily modified from regression to classification, or vice versa.

   2.2.2  Ex-ante Prediction versus Peeking Strategy. Popularity prediction can also be made before
or at the time of its publication (a.k.a. ex-ante prediction [136]), or after its publication (a.k.a. peek-
ing strategy [175]). Obviously, prediction in advance is a more challenging task, since only limited


                       ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
