A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances      27:27


predictions of existing models, a standardized comparison environment should be emphasized,
e.g., selecting appropriate evaluation protocols for classification/regression, using publicly avail-
able datasets, and so on, to avoid overestimating (or underestimating) the performance of a par-
ticular model.
  Other than purely pursuing prediction performance, or seeing at it in a new light, interpret-
ing the behavior of predictions may enable better understanding of the disciplines governing
the success of information items, maximizing social and business benefits through mastering and
even managing the information diffusion process. Thus, it is desirable to unveil the inner-context
driven mechanisms that guide information to spread further, for example: (i) investigating which
topology of the diffusion network expands faster [39]; (ii) the temporal and textual characteris-
tics of burst public events and fake news and why they are traveled fast [149, 195]; (iii) the visual
explanations of why some images/videos become popular quickly and why others do not [91];
(iv) interpreting deep neural networks [28]; and so on. Successfully explaining these phenomena
will improve the prediction, and help design more powerful decision making systems to detect and
bound viral marketing/advertising, rumor/fake news spreading, public opinion control, epidemic
prevention, and so on.

6.2  External Stimuli
External stimuli are one of the primary causes that lead the prediction of information cascades to be
unexplainable, unreliable, and finally maybe impossible. Compared to endogenous stimuli like in-
site search and share [57], external (or endogenous) stimuli are uncertain and unforeseeable events.
For example, a normal cascade with little fluctuations in its early stage may suddenly become
popular due to some external stimuli, which significantly increases the exposure/adoption rate
of that information. As a previous work [148] shows, about 71% of the information in Twitter is
diffused in the network without external influence, while the remaining 29% of tweets have been
significantly affected and even manipulated by exogenous force.
  Retrieval of knowledge and propagation patterns from one platform to help the prediction of
items in another platform with cross-domain real-time transfer learning (e.g., learn tweet spread-
ing to enhance the performance of predicting YouTube video views) was studied in Reference
[167]. Another example is SoVP [123], which learned the shared diffusion behavior in social net-
works to strengthen the ability to predict video popularity. The rationale behind these works is
that the trends appearing on Twitter would later drive users to search and watch related videos
in YouTube. Moreover, burst events are more likely to first appear on microblogging platforms
like Twitter/Weibo and then spread to other kinds of platforms such as newspapers and video
sharing sites. This inspired later works to predict popularity in one domain via resorting to other
information sources and dissemination platforms to model external stimuli responsible for the
popularity [1, 160, 232]. More such examples can be found in References [151, 194], which retrieve
information from Twitter and YouTube to predict the “ratings” and “views” of movies in IMDB.
In Reference [31], information from Facebook and Twitter were collected to predict the views of
articles. Another recent work [143] uses RNNs to model asynchronous media streams of YouTube
videos.
  Modeling external stimuli can significantly enrich data diversity and improve model robust-
ness. Actually, many web sites now provide extra information that attracts external stimuli, e.g.,
the information of referrers/URLs that may bring new views/adoptions. For YouTube videos, a re-
ferrer can be a hyperlink embedded in a tweet pointing to a video. This provides clues to trace the
sources of external stimuli. The top-10 referrers and the number of views each referrer brings as
features to predict the evolving trends of videos were used in References [54, 57]. This anatomy
of sources of popularity gives more insights into the future evolution of cascades [26], e.g., how


                       ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
