27:12                                                                                            F. Zhou et al.





Fig. 6. Ten evolving patterns characterizing the citation cascades in the APS dataset. We use hierarchical
clustering implemented by sicpy package in Python to cluster the APS papers. For each cluster, we show
20 years of evolving trends of citations, by use of mean values and ± standard deviations.

   3.1.5  Discussion. Despite their importance of temporal features, recent studies also suggested
that they may not work in certain scenarios—i.e., their advantages diminish over time [215], and
their effect is not always comparable to other features [208]. Note that many works try to model
and analyze the temporal evolution trends of cascades, e.g., based on time series patterns [223, 224],
survival analysis [112, 113], and point processes [174, 246]. A special class of works, generative
models, will be systematically reviewed in Section 4.

3.2  Structural Features

Cascade structure, sometimes also referred to as information diffusion, has been studied exten-
sively [14, 39, 58, 60, 238, 241], and works can be categorized according to their way of modeling
cascades: (i) participants only, i.e., only cascade graphs are involved; (ii) global graph, i.e., both
participants and non-participants are considered; and (iii) r-reachable graph, i.e., a compromise,
extending the cascade graph within the scope of global graph.

   3.2.1  Cascade Graph. A cascade graph is constructed based on its participants and their
interactions:

   Definition 3.1 (Cascade Graph). Given an information item Ii and the corresponding cascadeCi, a
cascade graph is defined as Gc = {Vc, Ec}, where nodes Vc = {u0,u1, . . . ,uN } are all participants
of cascade Ci, and matrix Ec ⊆Vc × Vc contains a set of edges representing all the immediate
relationships between Vc in a cascade (e.g., retweeting or citing relationship).

  Cascade graph Gc characterizes the process of information diffusion of an item Ii such as the
spreading directions and graph topology. One pioneering study employed structural features into
popularity prediction to predict which Twitter users are likely to mention a specific URL [58]. The
correlation between cascade popularity and two structural features (edge density and depth) of
microblogging network among early participants was analyzed in Reference [14]. It found that
with lower value of edge density and higher value of depth—implying a diverse group of early
participants—the popularity of cascades is more likely to be large.
  The topological structure (shape) of different cascade graphs may vary significantly from each
other, even if the number of nodes is the same [230]. As shown in Figure 7, two cascade graphs
from APS have distinct shapes. Although both cascades have ≈200 nodes, eventually, the structure,
depth, and structural virality (quantified by Wiener index [67]) of the two cascades are totally dif-
ferent. This means that simple structure measurements, such as node degree, depth, PageRank, and


ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
