A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances       27:3





   Fig. 1. Left: Number of publications over the last decade. Right: Distribution of venues of publications.

  In comparison with previous surveys, this article makes the following distinct contributions:

     (1) A more general perspective: We extend the realm of modeling online web content, e.g.,
        user-generated content microblogs [63], to a general definition of information, i.e., any
       measurable entities that can be propagated in any networks, including scientific publi-
        cations and citation networks, user published text/photos/videos and online sharing net-
       works, and so on.
     (2) A wider range of networks and cascades: As opposed to existing surveys that focus on a
        single type of social network (e.g., Twitter and Weibo in Reference [63]), this work reviews
        information spreading in various networks, including but not limited to Facebook, Flickr,
       YouTube, Netflix, IMDB, Instagram, Wikipedia, Reddit, and DBLP.
     (3) A broader and balanced in-depth survey of the methodologies for predicting the outcome
        or popularity of cascades: Complementing the previous surveys’ composite of methods at
         different analytical levels [70, 144, 185], we provide finer-grained analysis of trade-offs,
        advantages, and limitations of existing methods. We also consider a wider spectrum of
         features, methodologies and interpretations, compared to a recent survey that also focused
       on popularity prediction [63].
     (4) More comprehensive recent literature: We currently provide the most comprehensive lit-
        erature review of methods of modeling information diffusion, which not only spans a
       broad range of traditional feature engineering approaches and generative models but also
        contains recent advances in modeling and predicting information popularity with graph
        representation learning and deep learning techniques.

Figure 1  provides a summary statistics of the papers included in this survey. As shown, infor-
mation cascade modeling and prediction have consistently spurred great interest in recent years,
although the methodologies employed varied over time—e.g., most recently, deep learning-based
methods have emerged as the more popular techniques. Research works that we reviewed were
published in high-ranking conferences/journals related to data mining, social networks and infor-
mation management, such as WWW, ICWSM, KDD, CIKM, WSDM, SIGIR, MM, TKDE, TKDD,
ICDM, AAAI, and IJCAI. We note, though, that more than 40% of papers come from a variety
of conferences/journals outside of the typical venues, further attesting that this is an interdisci-
plinary topic spanning computer science, artificial intelligence, sociology, economics, marketing,
statistics, and so on.
  We build a taxonomy of methods from three different aspects, as illustrated in Figure 2. First,
popularity prediction can be considered as either a classification or a regression problem, accord-
ing to the problem formulation and target application tasks. For example, information outbreak


                       ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
