27:20                                                                                            F. Zhou et al.


compute. However, structural features, especially for those large-scale graphs, e.g., global graph
and r-reachable graphs, which often contain thousands or even millions of nodes and edges, re-
quire extensive computational resources. Content features of texts, images, audio, and videos, de-
pending on specific problem formulations, data scales, and modeling algorithms, have different
time/space complexities.
  In this spirit, given an exhaustive set of features, how to select a relatively small portion of
representative features to maximize the marginal benefits of prediction between effectiveness and
efficiency, becomes a critical consideration for designing practical prediction models [60, 230, 246].
Also, existing models require more features like history view counts and diffusion paths, which in
most cases are unavailable and, most importantly, are not generalizable to different scenarios.
  We reviewed four categories of features and corresponding prediction models. However, it is
impossible to mention all features and models, or to evaluate their performance in all feature com-
binations. A comprehensive study on evaluating different features in different conditions would
be beneficial in standardizing the feature engineering and feature selection/combination.

4  GENERATIVE MODELS
Many real-world phenomena—e.g., information retweeting, hospital admissions, and citations of
scientific papers,—can be formulated as event sequences in the continuous temporal domain. Mod-
eling the arrival/occurrence of event sequences or the participation time series is a fundamental
step towards understanding the underlying dynamics of the information diffusion. The spreading
of information items is therefore widely characterized by probabilistic statistical generative ap-
proaches such as epidemic models, survival analysis, and various stochastic point processes. In
this section, we review these generative models for popularity prediction.

4.1  Poisson Processes
Models based on point processes distinguish themselves from feature-based models because of
their statistical, probabilistic, and generative forms. Point processes are often used when modeling
time series, e.g., the arrival rate of customers, phone calls, and mechanical failures, in queuing
theory and operational research.
 A generative probabilistic model using reinforced Poisson process (RPP) was proposed in Ref-
erence [197] (followed by Reference [174]) to predict items’ popularity (in their case the scientific
impact of papers) using three key ingredients: (i) fitness or attractiveness of an item; (ii) tempo-
ral decay function; and (iii) reinforcement mechanism (e.g., rich-get-richer). Specifically, the rate
function of inhomogeneous Poisson process for information item Ii is defined as

                                          λi (t) = αiϕi (t)Pi (t),                                         (1)

where αi is the attractiveness of item Ii represented as a single value evaluated by maximum
likelihood estimation [197], or follows posterior distribution from a conjugate prior [174]; ϕi (t) is
the relaxation function or decay function to characterize the aging effect; Pi (t) is the total number
of popularity Ii received at time t. With the above defined rate function, given (j −1)th participant
arrives at tj−1, the probability of jth participant arrives at tj is given by
                                              −   tj  αiϕi (tj )Pi (tj )dt
                             Pr(tj |tj−1) = αiϕi (tj)Pi (tj)e    tj−1                      .                          (2)

  Based on RPP model, Reference [62] proposed an extended model PETM. Unlike RPP, which
is designed to quantify the long-term scientific impact, PETM is more applicable to the sce-
nario of microblogging platforms. Specifically, PETM uses a power-law time decay function
                                                                                                                                                   )2                                                                                                     t−μi                                                                                         1   exp  −(ln                                                                                                in                                                                                                                                               2ϕi (t) = t−γi (γi > 0) to substitute the log-normal distribution ϕi (t) = √                                                                                              2σ                                                                                2πσit                                                                                                                                                                                           i


ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
