27:4                                                                                             F. Zhou et al.





                             Fig. 2. Taxonomy of the information diffusion models.

prediction and users’ joint behavior prediction perform the classification tasks, while predicting
the exact volume of items/cascades at a specific future time requires regression learning. Second,
prediction can be made before or after the publication of the information. According to the pre-
diction time, existing methods can be categorized as ex-ante prediction or prediction after peeking
into the early stage of information cascades. Third, information prediction works can be further
classified as micro-level, macro-level, and meso-level predictions by the granularity of the tasks.
Methodologically, existing works are grouped into three categories based on the methods model-
ing information cascades, including feature-based methods, generative models and deep learning
approaches.
  The rest of this survey is structured according to the hierarchies of the method taxonomy. In
Section 2, we introduce the basic formulations, problem definitions, and the commonly used eval-
uation protocols and benchmark datasets. In Section 3, we illustrate basic characteristics of infor-
mation cascades and review corresponding feature-based models. In Section 4, we review another
major group of models relying on time series of cascades and stochastic processes. Section 5 sum-
marizes recent advances in modeling information cascades with deep learning-based techniques.
We discuss the open challenges and opportunities and conclude this survey in Section 6.

2 PROBLEM DEFINITION, EVALUATION, DATASETS, AND TAXONOMY
Modeling information items/cascades has long been an active field in both academia and indus-
try [162, 185]. Due to the natural diversity and broad scope of information, existing works vary
in their item/cascade definitions. In this section, we first review the frequently studied informa-
tion items and cascades—examples ranging from traditional news articles and academic papers
to newly emerged microblogs and online photos/videos. Then, we group the problems into three
categories: (i) predictions via classification or regression, (ii) predictions before or after publica-
tion, and (iii) the level/scope of the prediction. Along with introducing problem formulations, we
present the necessary preliminaries associated with information items/cascades.

2.1  Types of Information Items/Cascades
In this survey, we consider information items as any measurable entities in terms of their popular-
ity, whereas an information cascade is constituted by a propagation sequence of information items.
The best-known and most heavily studied information items are user-generated content (UGC),
made possible by the prevailing Web 2.0 services and mobile devices. UGC is no longer produced
by editors or publishers only, as traditional audiences have become the consumers and creators of
content, such as posts in social networking platforms, threads in discussion forums, and photos
and videos on content sharing websites. Such content has thoroughly changed the way users in-
teract with information and other users and how information is created, presented, disseminated,


ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
