27:28                                                                                            F. Zhou et al.


many external sources are contributing to the popularity of cascades, which continuously existed
and have already been diminished or even vanished.

6.3  Cooperation and Competition
Information cascades are not isolated but affect each other and are often interwoven via inter-
actions, cooperation and competition, when spreading among users. Cooperation means that the
diffusion of an information item is accelerated by other item(s), e.g., if one thing was reported
by many sources many times, then this information is more credible and has a higher probability
of adoption [146]. In contrast, due to the limited attention span of users [206], information items
(especially those with very similar content) could restrict each other’s diffusion [43]. Thus, if coop-
eration happens, then the expectation of an information item’s future popularity should be larger
than normal cases. Also in the case of competition, items with similar contents would inevitably
face the problem of low popularity or at least reduced popularity as their competitors increase.
  Existing works on this topic mainly focus on discovering cooperation/competition during dif-
fusion, but rarely on analyzing reciprocity and its effect on popularity prediction. For example,
interaction matrix between items to facilitate the prediction of tweets/hashtags was used in Ref-
erence [97]. Hawkes processes were adopted to model cooperation and competition between cas-
cades in social networks in References [231, 240]. Modeling the interactions between information
items/cascades, especially the cooperation and competition among them, can benefit popularity
prediction and deepen our understanding of information diffusion in various social scenarios, e.g.,
figuring out when and how cooperation/competition happens and identifying the best timing and
content of items to enable distributors to avoid competitions and meet more cooperation.

7 CONCLUSION
We provided a broad overview of the field of information diffusion modeling and popularity pre-
diction and proposed a taxonomy to categorize related literature, highlighting a number of influ-
ential papers/approaches in each category. We also discussed the advantages and disadvantages of
different types of methods over time and outlined some challenges and open research problems.
There exists a vast literature and growing research on this topic, and we systematically covered,
in certain detail, selected representative works, with a hope that this knowledge can be used as a
stepping-stone for future work and/or evaluations in this field.

A  SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL

Due to the space limitation, we provide more detailed review of features and feature-based model
in online supplementary material [249].

REFERENCES
  [1] Adiya Abisheva, Venkata Rama Kiran Garimella, David Garcia, and Ingmar Weber. 2014. Who watches (and shares)
     what on youtube? And when?: Using twitter to understand youtube viewership. In WSDM. 593–602.
  [2] Lada A. Adamic, Thomas M. Lento, Eytan Adar, and Pauline C. Ng. 2016. Information evolution in social networks.
       In WSDM. 473–482.
  [3] Mohamed Ahmed, Stella Spagna, Felipe Huici, and Saverio Niccolini. 2013. A peek into the future: Predicting the
       evolution of popularity in user generated content. In WSDM. 607–616.
  [4]  Sultan Alzahrani, Saud Alashri, Anvesh Reddy Koppela, Hasan Davulcu, and Ismail Toroslu. 2015. A network-based
      model for predicting hashtag breakouts in twitter. In SBP. 3–12.
  [5]  Aris Anagnostopoulos, Ravi Kumar, and Mohammad Mahdian. 2008. Influence and correlation in social networks.
       In KDD. 7–15.
  [6] Ashton Anderson, Daniel Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, Jure Leskovec, and Mitul Tiwari. 2015. Global diffusion via
      cascading invitations: Structure, growth, and homophily. In WWW. 66–76.
  [7] Yoav Artzi, Patrick Pantel, and Michael Gamon. 2012. Predicting responses to microblog posts. In NAACL-HLT.


ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
