Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021





    Figure 5: Hyperparameter sensitivity in CAW sampling. AUC on all inductive test links are reported.





Figure 6: Complexity evaluation: The accumulated runtime of (a) temporal random walk extraction (Alg.1) and
(b) the entire CAW-N training, timed over one epoch on Wikipedia (using different |E| for training).

set the rest two to an optimal value found by grid search, and report the mean AUC performance on
all inductive test links (i.e. old vs. new, new vs. new) and their 95% conﬁdence intervals.
The results are summarized in Fig.5. From (a), we observe that only a small number of sampled CAWs
are needed to achieve a competitive performance. Meanwhile, the performance gain is saturated as
the sampling number increases. We analyze the temporal decay α in (b): α usually has an optimal
interval, whose values and length also vary with different datasets to capture the different levels of
temporal dynamics; a small α suggests an almost uniform sampling of interaction history, which
hurts the performance; an overly large α also damages the model, since it makes the model only
sample the most recent few interactions for computation and blind to the rest. Based on our efﬁcient
sampling strategy (Sec.4.4), we may combine the optimal α with the average link intensity τ (Tab.1),
and concludes that CAW-N only needs to online record and sample from about a constant times
about 5 (≈τα) most recent links for each node. Plot (c) suggests that the performance may peak at a
certain CAW length, while the exact value may vary with datasets. Longer CAWs indicate that the
corresponding networks evolve according to more complicated laws encoded in higher-order motifs.

5.4  COMPLEXITY EVALUATION
We examine how the runtime of CAW-N depends on the number of edges |E| used for training. We
record the runtimes of CAW-N for training one epoch on the Wikipedia datasets using M = 32, m = 2
with batch-size=32. Speciﬁcs of the computing infrastructure are given in Appendix C.5. Fig. 6
(a) shows the accumulated runtime of executing the random walk extraction i.e. Alg.1 only. It well
aligns with our theoretical analysis (Thm. A.2) that each step of the random walk extraction has
constant complexity (i.e. accumulated runtime linear with |E|). Plot (b) shows the entire runtime for
one-epoch training, which is also linear with |E|. Note that O(|E|) is the time complexity that one at
least needs to pay. The study demonstrates our method is scalable to long edge streams.

6  CONCLUSION

We proposed CAW-N to inductively represent the dynamics of temporal networks. CAW-N uses
CAWs to implicitly extract network motifs via temporal random walks and adopts novel set-based
anonymization to establish the correlation between network motifs. The success of CAW-N points
out many promising future research directions on temporal networks: Pairing CAW-N with neural
network interpretation techniques (Montavon et al., 2018) may give a chance to automatically discover
larger and meaningful motifs/patterns of temporal networks; CAW-N may also be generalized to
predict high-order structures (e.g., triangles) that correspond to some function units of temporal
networks from different domains (Benson et al., 2016; 2018; Zitnik et al., 2019).

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank Jiaxuan You and Rex Ying for their helpful discussion on the idea of Causal Anonymous
Walks. We also thank Rok Sosiˇc, Camilo Andres Ruiz and Maria Brbi´c for providing insightful


                                       9
