TGB         TGB            novel         TGB          TGB
          Datasets          Dataloaders     TG model         Evaluators        Leaderboards


Figure 2: Overview of the Temporal Graph Benchmark (TGB) pipeline: (a) TGB includes
large-scale and realistic datasets from five different domains with both dynamic link prediction and
node property prediction tasks. (b) TGB automatically downloads datasets and processes them into
numpy, PyTorch and PyG compatible TemporalData formats. (c) Novel TG models can be easily
evaluated on TGB datasets via reproducible and realistic evaluation protocols. (d) TGB provides
public and online leaderboards to track recent developments in temporal graph learning domain. The
code is publicly available as a Python library.




metric serves to determine whether the methods’ predictions for class importance adhere to the
same ordering as the ground truth. In Section 5.2, we show that simple heuristics can outperform
state-of-the-art TG methods in achieving superior performance for this task.

Overall, our proposed Temporal Graph Benchmark has the following contributions:

        • Large and diverse datasets. TGB includes datasets coming from a diverse range of domains
       and spanning both edge and node-level tasks. We contributed seven novel datasets which
         are orders of magnitude larger than existing ones in terms of number of edges, nodes and
        timestamps.
        • Improved evaluation. We propose an improved and standardized evaluation pipeline
        motivated by real-world applications. For dynamic link property prediction, we sample
         multiple negative instances per positive edge and ensure a mix of both historical and random
         negative samples, while using the MRR metric. For the node affinity prediction task, we use
         the NDCG metric to evaluate the relative importance of classes within the top ranking ones.
        • Empirical findings. We show that for the dynamic link property prediction task, model
        performances can vary drastically across datasets. For example, the best performing model
       on tgbl-wiki encounters a 40% test MRR drop on tgbl-review and the surprise index
         of a dataset affects model performance. On the node affinity prediction task, we find that
        simple heuristics can often outperform state-of-the-art TG methods, thus leaving ample
       room for development of future methods targeting this task.
        • Public leaderboard and reproducible results. Following the good practice of OGB,
     TGB also provides an automated and reproducible pipeline for both link and node property
         prediction tasks. Researchers can submit and compare method performance on the TGB
         leaderboard.

Reproducibility: TGB code, datasets, leaderboards and details are on the TGB website. The code is
also publicly available on GitHub with documentations seen here.

2  Related Work
Temporal Graph Datasets and Libraries. Recently, Poursafaei et al. [33] collected six novel datasets
for link prediction on continuous-time dynamic graphs while proposing more difficult negative
samplings for evaluation. In comparison, we curated seven novel temporal graph datasets spanning
both edge and node-level tasks for realistic evaluation of machine learning on temporal graphs. Yu et
al. [52] presented DyGLib, a platform for reproducible training and evaluation of existing TG models
on common benchmark datasets. DyGLib demonstrates the discrepancy of the model performance
across different datasets and argues that diverse evaluation protocols of previous works caused an
inconsistency in performance reports. Similarly, Skarding et al. [39] provided a comprehensive
comparative analysis of heuristics, static GNNs, discrete dynamic GNN, and continuous dynamic
GNN on dynamic link prediction task. They showed that dynamic models outperforms their static
counterparts consistently and heuristic approaches can achieve strong performance. In all of the
above benchmarks, the included datasets only contain a few million edges. In comparison, TGB
datasets are orders of magnitude larger in scale in terms of number of nodes, edges and timestamps.
TGB also includes both node and edge-level tasks. Huang et al. [18] collected a novel dynamic


                                       3
