A  Dataset Documentation and Intended Use

All datasets presented by TGB are intended for academic use and their corresponding licenses are
listed in Appendix B. For the ease of access, we provide the following links to the TGB benchmark
suits and datasets.

• Dataset and project documentations can be found at: https://tgb.complexdatalab.com/.

• TGB Python package is available via pypi at: https://pypi.org/project/py-tgb/.

• Tutorials and API references can be found at: https://docs.tgb.complexdatalab.com/.

Maintenance Plan. To provide a robust, realistic, and reproducible benchmark for temporal graphs,
we plan to continue developing and maintaining TGB based on community feedback and involvement.
We will maintain and improve the TGB and TGB-Baselines github repository, while the TGB datasets
are maintained via Digital Research Alliance of Canada (funded by the Government of Canada).

B  Dataset Licenses and Download Links

In this section, we present dataset licenses and the download link (embedded in dataset name). The
datasets are maintained via Digital Reseach Alliance of Canada funded by the Government of Canada.
As authors, we confirm the data licenses as indicated below and that we bear all responsibility in case
of violation of rights.

• tgbl-wiki: MIT license. The original dataset can be found here [24].

• tgbl-review: Amazon license. By accessing the Amazon Customer Reviews Library (a.k.a.
  Reviews Library), one agrees that the Reviews Library is an Amazon Service subject to the
  Amazon.com Conditions of Use and one agrees to be bound by them, with the following additional
  conditions. In addition to the license rights granted under the Conditions of Use, Amazon or
   its content providers grant the user a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable,
  revocable license to access and use the Reviews Library for purposes of academic research. One
  may not resell, republish, or make any commercial use of the Reviews Library or its contents,
  including use of the Reviews Library for commercial research, such as research related to a funding
  or consultancy contract, internship, or other relationship in which the results are provided for a fee
  or delivered to a for-profit organization. One may not (a) link or associate content in the Reviews
  Library with any personal information (including Amazon customer accounts) or (b) attempt to
  determine the identity of the author of any content in the Reviews Library. If one violates any of
  the foregoing conditions, their license to access and use the Reviews Library will automatically
  terminate without prejudice to any of the other rights or remedies Amazon may have. The original
  dataset can be found here [29].

• tgbl-coin: CC BY-NC license (Attribution-NonCommercial).  The original dataset can be
  found here [37].

• tgbl-comment: CC BY-NC license (Attribution-NonCommercial). The original dataset can be
  found here [28].

• tgbl-flight: a non-commercial, limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable, and
  terminable license to copy, modify, and use the data in accordance with this agreement solely for
  the purpose of non-profit research, non-profit education, commercial internal testing and evaluation
  of the data, or for government purposes. No license is granted for any other purpose and there are
  no implied licenses in this agreement. For more details, please consult the original dataset license.
  The original dataset can be found here [41].

• tgbn-trade: MIT license. The original dataset can be found here [26].

• tgbn-genre: MIT license. The original LastFM-song-listens dataset [24, 15] and the million-song
  dataset [2] are available here and here, respectively.

• tgbn-reddit: CC BY-NC license (Attribution-NonCommercial). The original dataset can be
  found here [28].

• tgbn-token: CC BY-NC license (Attribution-NonCommercial). The original dataset can be
  found here [37].


                                       14
