TGAT
TGN-mean
TGN-2l
TGN-attn
TGN-sum
TGN-id
Jodie
DyRep
TGN-nomem
(a) Tradeoff between accuracy (test average preci-
sion in %) and speed (time per epoch in sec) of
different models.
012
5
10
20
30
40
Number of sampled neighbors per layer
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
Test Average Precision
1l-no_mem-last
2l-no_mem-last
1l-mem-last
2l-mem-last
1l-mem-uniform
(b) Performance of methods with different number
of layers and with or without memory when sam-
pling an increasing number of neighbors. Last and
uniform refer to neighbor sampling strategy.
Figure 3: Ablation studies on the Wikipedia dataset for the transductive setting of the future edge
prediction task. Means and standard deviations were computed over 10 runs.
5.2
CHOICE OF MODULES
We perform a detailed ablation study comparing different instances of our TGN framework, focusing
on the speed vs accuracy tradeoff resulting from the choice of modules and their combination. The
variants we experiment with are reported in Table 1 and their results are depicted in Figure 3a.
Memory.
We compare a model that does not make use of a memory (TGN-no-mem), with a model
which uses memory (TGN-attn) but is otherwise identical. While TGN-att is about 3× slower, it has
nearly 4% higher precision than TGN-no-mem, conﬁrming the importance of memory for learning
on dynamic graphs, due to its ability to store long-term information about a node which is otherwise
hard to capture. This ﬁnding is conﬁrmed in Figure 3b where we compare different models when
increasing the number of sampled neighbors: the models with memory consistently outperform the
models without memory. Moreover, using the memory in conjunction with sampling the most recent
neighbors reduces the number of neighbors needed to achieve the best performance when used.
Embedding Module.
Figure 3a compare models with different embedding modules (TGN-id,
TGN-time, TGN-attn, TGN-sum). The ﬁrst interesting insight is that projecting the embedding in
time seems to slightly hurt, as TGN-time underperforms TGN-id. Moreover, the ability to exploit the
graph is crucial for performance: we note that all graph-based projections (TGN-attn, TGN-sum)
outperform the graph-less TGN-id model by a large margin, with TGN-attn being the top performer
at the expense of being only slightly slower than the simpler TGN-sum. This indicates that the ability
to obtain more recent information through the graph, and to select which neighbors are the most
important are critical factors for the performance of the model.
Message Aggregator.
We compare two further models, one using the last message aggregator
(TGN-attn) and another a mean aggregator (TGN-mean) but otherwise the same. While TGN-mean
performs slightly better, it is more than 3× slower.
Number of layers.
While in TGAT having 2 layers is of fundamental importance for obtaining
good performances (TGAT vs TGAT-1l has over 10% difference in average precision), in TGN the
presence of the memory makes it enough to use just one layer to obtain very high performance
(TGN-attn vs TGN-2l). This is because when accessing the memory of the 1-hop neighbors, we are
indirectly accessing information from hops further away. Moreover, being able to use only one layer
of graph attention speeds up the model dramatically.
6
CONCLUSION
We introduce TGN, a generic framework for learning on continuous-time dynamic graphs. We
obtain state-of-the-art results on several tasks and datasets while being faster than previous methods.
8
