Figure 5: PINT. Following the MP-TGN protocol, PINT updates memory states as events unroll.
Meanwhile, we use Eqs. (7-11) to update positional features. To extract the embedding for node v,
we build its TCT, annotate nodes with memory + positional features, and run (injective) MP.
we highlight that there may exist many other ways to achieve injective temporal MP — we have
presented a solution that captures the ‘recency’ inductive bias of real-world temporal networks.
Relative positional features. To boost the power of PINT, we propose augmenting memory states
with relative positional features. These features count how many temporal walks of a given length
exist between two nodes, or equivalently, how many times nodes appear at different levels of TCTs.
Formally, let P be the d ⇥d matrix obtained by padding a (d −1)-dimensional identity matrix
with zeros on its top row and its rightmost column. Also, let r(t)
j!u 2 Nd denote the positional
feature vector of node j relative to u’s TCT at time t.
For each event (u, v, t), with u and
v not participating in other events at t, we recursively update the positional feature vectors as
V(0)
i
= {i}
8i
(7)
r(0)
i!j =
(
[1, 0, . . . , 0]>
if i = j
[0, 0, . . . , 0]>
if i 6= j
(8)
V(t+)
u
= V(t+)
v
= V(t)
v
[ V(t)
u
(9)
r(t+)
i!v = P r(t)
i!u + r(t)
i!v
8i 2 V(t)
u
(10)
r(t+)
j!u = P r(t)
j!v + r(t)
j!u
8j 2 V(t)
v
(11)
where we use t+ to denote values “right after” t. The set Vi keeps track of the nodes for which
we need to update positional features when i participates in an interaction. For simplicity, we have
assumed that there are no other events involving u or v at time t. Appendix B.10 provides equations
for the general case where nodes can participate in multiple events at the same timestamp.
Figure 4: The effect of (u, v, t) on the
monotone TCT of v. Also, note how the
positional features of a node i, relative
to v, can be incrementally updated.
The value r(t)
i!v[k] (the k-th component of r(t)
i!v) corresponds
to how many different ways we can get from v to i in k steps
through temporal walks. Additionally, we provide in Lemma 2
an interpretation of relative positional features in terms of the so-
called monotone TCTs (Deﬁnition 2). In this regard, Figure 4
shows how the TCT of v evolves due to an event (u, v, t) and
provides an intuition about the updates in Eqs. 10-11. The
procedure amounts to appending the monotone TCT of u to the
ﬁrst level of the monotone TCT of v.
Deﬁnition 2. The monotone TCT of a node u at time t, denoted
by ˜Tu(t), is the maximal subtree of the TCT of u s.t. for any path
p = (u, t1, u1, t2, u2, . . . ) from the root u to leaf nodes of ˜Tu(t)
time monotonically decreases, i.e., we have that t1 > t2 > . . . .
Lemma 2. For any pair of nodes i, u of a temporal graph G(t), the k-th component of the positional
feature vector r(t)
i!u stores the number of times i appears at the k-th layer of the monotone TCT of u.
Edge and node embeddings. To obtain the embedding hγ for an event γ = (u, v, t), an L-layer
PINT computes embeddings for node u and v using L steps of temporal message passing. However,
when computing the embedding hL
u(t) of u, we concatenate node states sj(t) with the positional
features r(t)
j!u and r(t)
j!v for all node j in the L-hop temporal neighborhood of u. We apply the same
procedure to obtain hL
v (t), and then combine hL
v (t) and hL
u(t) using a readout function.
7
