feature vectors. The `-th entry of g(w; Su) stores how many times w appears at the `-th position in a
walk of Su, i.e. g(w, Su)[`] = |{W 2 Su : (w, t`) = W`}| where W` is `-th pair of W.
To encode a walk W with respect to the sets Su and Sv, CAW applies ENC(W; Su, Sv) =
RNN([f1(ICAW(wi; Su, Sv))kf2(ti−1 −ti)]L
i=1) where f1 is a permutation-invariant function, f2 is
a time encoder, and t0 = t1 = t. Finally, CAW combines the embeddings of each walk in Su [ Sv
using mean-pooling or self-attention to obtain the representation for the event (u, v, t).
In practice, TGNs often rely on sampling schemes for computational reasons. However we are
concerned with the expressiveness of TGNs, so our analysis assumes complete structural information,
i.e., Su is the set of all temporal walks from u and MP-TGNs combine information from all neighbors.
3
The representational power and limits of TGNs
We now study the expressiveness of TGNs on node/edge-level prediction. We also establish connec-
tions to a variant of the WL test and show limits of speciﬁc TGN models. Proofs are in Appendix B.
3.1
Distinguishing nodes with MP-TGNs
We analyze MP-TGNs w.r.t. their ability to map different nodes to different locations in the embedding
space. In particular, we say that an L-layer MP-TGN distinguishes two nodes u, v of a temporal
graph at time t, if the last layer embeddings of u and v are different, i.e., h(L)
u (t) 6= h(L)
v
(t).
We can describe the MP computations of a node v at time t via its temporal computation tree (TCT)
Tv(t). Tv(t) has v as its root and height equal to the number of MP-TGN layers L. We will keep
the dependence on depth L implicit for notational simplicity. For each element (u, e, t0) 2 N(v, t)
associated with v, we have a node, say i, in the next layer of the TCT linked to the root by an edge
annotated with (e, t0). The remaining TCT layers are built recursively using the same mechanism.
We denote by ]t
v the (possibly many-to-one) operator that maps nodes in Tv(t) back to nodes in G(t),
e.g., ]t
vi = u. Each node i in Tv(t) has a state vector si = s]tvi(t). To get the embedding of the root
v, information is propagated bottom-up, i.e., starting from the leaves all the way up to the root —
each node aggregates the message from the layer below and updates its representation along the way.
Whenever clear from context, we denote ]t
v simply as ] for a cleaner notation.
We study the expressive power of MP-TGNs through the lens of functions on multisets adapted to
temporal settings, i.e., comprising triplets of node states, edge features, and timestamps. Intuitively,
injective functions ‘preserve’ the information as it is propagated, so should be essential for maximally
expressive MP-TGNs. We formalize this idea in Lemma 1 and Proposition 2 via Deﬁnition 1.
Deﬁnition 1 (Isomorphic TCTs). Two TCTs Tz(t) and Tz0(t) at time t are isomorphic if there is a
bijection f : V (Tz(t)) ! V (Tz0(t)) between the nodes of the trees such that the following holds:
(u, v, t0) 2 E(Tz(t)) () (f(u), f(v), t0) 2 E(Tz0(t))
8(u, v, t0) 2 E(Tz(t)) : euv(t0) = ef(u)f(v)(t0) and 8u 2 V (Tz(t)) : su = sf(u) and ku = kf(u)
Here, ku denotes the level (depth) of node u in the tree. The root node has level 0, and for a node u
with level ku, the children of u have level ku + 1.
Lemma 1. If an MP-TGN Q with L layers distinguishes two nodes u, v of a dynamic graph G(t),
then the L-depth TCTs Tu(t) and Tv(t) are not isomorphic.
For non-isomorphic TCTs, Proposition 2 shows that improving MP-TGNs with injective message
passing layers sufﬁces to achieve node distinguishability, extending results from static GNNs [43].
Proposition 2 (MP-TGNs with injective message passing). If the L-depth TCTs of two nodes u, v of
a temporal graph G(t) at time t are not isomorphic, then an MP-TGN Q with L layers and injective
aggregation and update functions at each layer is able to distinguish nodes u and v.
So far, we have considered TCTs with general memory modules, i.e., nodes are annotated with
memory states. However, an important question remains: How does the expressive power of MP-
TGNs change as a function of the memory? Naturally, different implementation of memory modules
can determine whether the TCTs of two nodes are isomorphic or not. Thus, most expressive MP-
TGNs should also employ injective memory aggregation/update. However, Proposition 3 shows that
adding GRU-based memory does not increase the expressiveness of suitably deep MP-TGNs.
4
