The Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI-24)

utilizes the outcomes of micro-prediction to guide macro-       val, then ui being connected to hyperedge em only occurs in
prediction, lacking a comprehensive recognition of the mu-       diffusion hypergraph GtD.
tually reinforcing synergy inherent in these two tasks. Sim-         In this work, we aim to address both the macroscopic
ilarly, while DMT-LIC (Chen et al. 2019a) incorporates a      and microscopic diffusion prediction problems based on the
shared representation layer to capture cascade graph repre-      above introductions.
sentations and diffusion processes, it fails to address the is-        Macroscopic Diffusion Prediction: Given a social graph
sue of potential contamination and redundancy between the     GS, diffusion hypergraphs GD and an observed diffusion
shared features and task-specific features. Moreover, both      sequence dm = {(umi  , tmi )|umi ∈U}, estimate the final size
methods primarily concentrate on user interactions within      |dm| of cascade dm.
individual cascades, neglecting the intricate interactions and        Microscopic Diffusion Prediction: Given a social graph
dynamics among cascades at a global level.                 GS, diffusion hypergraphs GD and an observed diffusion
  To address the above challenges, we propose MINDS, a      sequence dm = {(umi  , tmi )|umi ∈U}, predict which user
streamlined and efficient model for Multi-scale INformation       will participate in dm in the next step.
DiffuSion prediction. Specifically, at the macro level, we
construct sequential hypergraphs to effectively capture the                   Method
interactions and dynamics among cascades. From a global       In this section, we will provide a comprehensive introduc-
perspective, modeling complex interactions among users       tion to the proposed model. The architectural overview of
and cascades is consistent with the concept of the hyper-       the proposed model is depicted in Fig. 2, which comprises
graph. Constructing sequential hypergraphs by dividing the       four primary modules:
time period into sequential time windows can accurately de-       User Global Interactive Learning Module: This module
scribe the dynamic evolution of the cascades. At the mi-        is responsible for extracting user preferences at each time
cro level, we focus on understanding the social homophily       interval and characterizing the dynamic changes of cascades.
among users within social networks. We design a shared    A fusion layer at the cascade level facilitates this process.
module to learn shared features for both macro and micro       User Social Homophily Learning Module: It captures
tasks. Furthermore, we incorporate adversarial training and       users’ social relationship at the individual user level using
orthogonality constraints to mitigate feature redundancy and     Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN).
contamination between shared and task-specific features. In        Shared-private Representation Learning Module: This
summary, the main contributions of this paper are three-fold:     module learns task-specific representations and shared rep-
 • We propose an effective and straightforward model that       resentations to facilitate diffusion prediction.
                                                               Diffusion Prediction Module: This module concatenates   tackles both macro and micro prediction, leveraging their
   mutual reinforcement to enhance overall performance.         task-specific features with shared representation for macro-
                                                               scopic and microscopic diffusion prediction, respectively.
 • We introduce an approach that captures the interactions
   and dynamics among cascades by modeling information     User Global Interactive Learning
   diffusion in sequential hypergraphs. To address feature
                                                                In order to simultaneously account for global interactions
   redundancy, we incorporate adversarial training and or-
                                                 among cascades and dynamic changes of cascades. On the
   thogonality constraints.
                                                                   basis of the constructed sequential diffusion hypergraphs,
 • We conducted comprehensive experiments to evaluate     we introduce the HGNN to learn the user global interactions
   our model’s performance. The results demonstrate its su-       of each independent time interval at the cascade level, and
   periority over state-of-the-art methods in both macro and      add a fusion layer between two continuous time intervals to
   micro prediction.                                     model the dynamics of cascades.

                                                   Hypergraph Neural Network  At each time interval, we
          Problem Formulation                  model the interactions of users through HGNN. The process
                                                                of HGNN is illustrated in Fig. 3. For a simple graph, graph
To commence, we present the social graph and diffusion hy-
                                                              convolution takes the aggregation of its neighbor vertices to
pergraphs that constitute the foundation for diffusion pre-
                                                                 get a new representation of the central vertex. The informa-
diction within our model. The social graph is denoted as
                                                                     tion of vertices is passed through edges in a simple graph.
GS = (U, E), where U is the user set and E is the edge
                                                                    Similarly, hyperedges play a role in information transmis-
set. Each edge (ui, uj) ∈E represents a social relationship
                                                                sion in a hypergraph. The message aggregating in the hy-
between user ui and uj. The observed diffusion cascades
                                                            pergraph can be summarized in a two-stage procedure: 1)
D = {d1, d2, . . . , dM}, |D| = N are split into T subsets ac-
                                                             Vertex-to-Hyperedge; 2) Hyperedge-to-Vertex.
cording to timestamps for constructing sequential diffusion
                                                            Vertex-to-Hyperedge. Given a diffusion hypergraph GtD,hypergraphs GD = {GtD|t = 1, 2, . . . , T}, GtD = (U t, Et),            t                                                        the first stage of HGNN aims to update the feature yj,t ofwhere U   is the user set and Et is the hyperedge set. In
                                                          hyperedge etj by aggregating the information of all its con-the diffusion hypergraph, users participate in the same cas-
                                                             nected vertices, which can be defined as:
cade and are connected by a hyperedge, in other words, a
                                                  
hyperedge represents a cascade. Note that the set of nodes                                             xli,t                           Xconnected         by            hyperedge                               is different                                      in each                                          hypergraph.                                                                            It                  ylj,t = σ wetj ·                                                                    ,        (1)                                                                                           |Nv(etj)|means that                 participates                                         the t-th                                             time inter-               if ui                             in dm during                                                                                                   uti∈Nv(et                                                                                                                      j)




                                                   8572
