Figure 3: The node affinity prediction task aims to predict how the preference of a user towards items
changes over time. In the tgbn-genre example, the task is to predict the frequency at which the user
would listen to each genre over the next week given their listening history until today.
than random negatives [33]. We sample equally from historical and random negative edges. Note
that depending on the dataset and the timestamp t, there might not be enough historical negatives to
sample from. In this case, we simply increase the ratio of the random negatives to have the desired
number of negative edges per positive ones. For reproducibility, we include a fixed set of negatives
sampled for each dataset to ensure consistent comparison amongst models.
Performance metric. The commonly used metric for reporting models’ performance for the dynamic
link prediction task is either Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve (AUROC) or
Average Precision (AP). An appropriate metric should be able to capture the ranking of a positive
edge amongst the negative ones, which is not fulfilled by either AUROC or AP. Thus, we devise to
use the filtered Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) as the evaluation metric for the dynamic link property
prediction. The MRR computes the reciprocal rank of the true destination node among the negative
or fake destinations. The MRR varies in the range of (0, 1] and it is a commonly used metric in
recommendation systems [47] and knowledge graphs [44, 17, 16]. In addition, recent link prediction
literature is also shifting towards adopting the MRR metric [5, 16, 50]. It should be noted that when
reporting the MRR, we perform collision checks to ensure that no positive edge is sampled as a
negative edge.
3.2
Dynamic Node Property Prediction
The goal of dynamic node property prediction is to predict the property of a node at any given
timestamp t, i.e., to learn a function f : Vt →Y, where Vt is the set of nodes at time t and Y is
some output space (e.g. {−1, +1}, R, Rp, etc.). This is a general category for node-level tasks such
as node classification and node regression. Here, the property of the node can be a one hot label, a
weight vector or an euclidean coordinate. Currently, there is a lack of large-scale temporal graph
datasets with node labels in the literature; therefore, we first include the node affinity prediction task
(as defined below). In the future, we will add more node-level tasks and datasets into TGB.
Node affinity prediction. This task considers the affinity of a subset of nodes (representing, e.g.,
users) towards other nodes (e.g., items) as its property, and how the affinity naturally changes over
time. This task is relevant for example in recommendation systems, where it is important to provide
personalized recommendations for a user by modelling their preference towards different items over
time. Figure 3 shows the node affinity prediction task in the context of music recommendation
systems as seen in the tgbn-genre dataset. In this task, we are given the interaction history of a user
with different music genres, and the goal is to predict the frequency at which the user would listen to
each genre over the next week.
More formally, given the observed evolution history of a temporal graph Gt until current timestamp t,
the node affinity prediction task (on a dataset such as tgbn-genre) predicts the interaction frequency
vector yt[u, :] for a node u over a set of candidate nodes N within a fixed future period [t, t+k] where
k is the window size defined by the application. Each entry in yt[u, :] corresponds to a candidate
node v ∈N and the groundtruth value is generated as follows:
yt[u, v] =
P
t<ti≤t+k w(u,v,ti)
P
z∈N
P
t<ti≤t+k w(u,z,ti)
(1)
where w(u,v,ti) is the weight of the edge (u, v, ti) (which we assume to be 0 if the edge between u
and v is not present at time ti). Observe that, by definition, ∥yt[u, :]∥1 = 1. We use the Normalized
Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) metric that takes into account the relative order of elements.
5
