fomer at a semantic level. Specifically, TCL utilizes two separate encoders to extract representations
from temporal neighborhoods surrounding the two nodes involved in an edge.
• CAWN [46] predicts dynamic links based on extracting temporal random walks and retrieves
temporal network motifs to represent network dynamics. It utilizes a neural network model to
encode Causal Anonymous Walks (CAWs) to support online training and inference. Particularly, it
starts by relabeling nodes with encoded temporal anonymous walks starting at the nodes involved
in an interaction. Then, the temporal walks themselves are further encoded using the generated
node labels and encodings of the elapsed times. Finally, the existence of a link is predicted based
on aggregating the walks encoding through a pooling module.
• TGAT [48] captures both temporal and structural characteristics of dynamic graphs using a self-
attention mechanism. At a specific timestamp t, TGAT first concatenates the raw features of a node
with a trainable encoding of time t. Upon the observation of an interaction among a pair of nodes,
TGAT utilizes the self-attention mechanism to apply message passing to the time augmented node
features and generates the latest node representations.
• NAT [25] adopts a novel dictionary-type neighborhood representation for nodes. Such represen-
tation records a downsampled set of node neighbors as keys and constructs features for joint
neighborhood of multiple nodes. A dedicated data structure called N-cache supports GPU accelera-
tion for the dictionary representations.
• EdgeBank∞[33] is a simple heuristic storing all observed edges in a memory (implemented as a
hashtable). At inference time, if the queried node pair is in the memory then EdgeBank∞predicts
true, otherwise EdgeBank∞predicts false.
• EdgeBanktw [33] is another variation of EdgeBank which only memorizes edges from a fixed
duration in the recent past. Therefore, it has a strong recency bias.
Models Used for Evaluation of Dynamic Node Property Prediction Task.
• TGN [35] is discussed above. We utilize the TGN embedding of a node from the memory at the
query time t to predict the node labels.
• DyRep [42] same as discussed above. We use the node embedding to predict the node labels.
• Persistant Forecast [36] is a simple yet powerful baseline for time series forecasting and complex
systems. Here, we extend the core idea by simply outputting the recently observed node label for
the current time t.
• Moving Average [31] considers the average of the node labels observed in the previous k steps (we
set k = 7).
E
Computing Resources
Dynamic link property prediction. For this task, we ran all experiments on either Narval or Béluga
cluster of Digital Research Alliance of Canada. For the experiments on Narval cluster, we ran each
experiment on a Nvidia A100 (40G memory) GPU with 4 CPU nodes (from either of the AMD Rome
7532 @ 2.40 GHz 256M cache L3, AMD Rome 7502 @ 2.50 GHz 128M cache L3, or AMD Milan
7413 @ 2.65 GHz 128M cache L3 available type) each with 100G memory. For the experiments on
Béluga, we ran each experiment on a NVidia V100SXM2 (16G memory) GPU with 4 CPU nodes
(from either of the Intel Gold 6148 Skylake @ 2.4 GHz, Intel Gold 6148 Skylake @ 2.4 GHz, Intel
Gold 6148 Skylake @ 2.4 GHz, or Intel Gold 6148 Skylake @ 2.4 GHz) each with 100G memory.
A five-day time limit is considered for each experiment. We repeated each experiments five times
and reported the average and standard deviation of different runs. It is noteworthy that except for the
TGN [35] and DyRep [42] models that we ported them into the PyTorch Geometric environment,
the other models (evaluated by their original source code or by using the DyGLib repository) throw
an out of memory error for the medium and large datasets on both Narval and Béluga clusters.
Dynamic Node Property Prediction For this task, we ran experiments with 4 standard CPU and
either RTX8000, V100, A100 or A6000 GPUs. The longest experiment takes around 2 days on the
tgbl-comment and tgbn-token dataset.
16
