C
Evaluation Settings in TG
Based on how the test set information is used during the evaluation of temporal graph learning
models, the existing approaches can be grouped into the following three categories. We emphasize
that methods from different categories should be evaluated distinctly to avoid unfair comparison.
Following the practice of the previous works and for the sake of clarity, we comply with streaming
setting. Particularly, we consider a fixed split point in time, i.e. tsplit, where the information before
and after this point constitute the training and test data, respectively.
Streaming Setting. In this setting, information from the test set is only employed for updating the
memory module in temporal graph learning methods (e.g., TGN [35]). However, no back-propagation
or model update is possible based on the test set information. We consider this setting as streaming,
since it helps in fast inference by incorporating the recent information (even from the test set), while
observign the fact that retraining the model with the test data is too expensive.
Deployed Setting. In this setting, the test set information is not available for any modification to
the model. This setting closely follows the standard machine learning setting with distinct training
dataset and test dataset. We refer to this setting as deployed to denote that after deploying the a model,
it is only used for inference and no updates to any part of the model is allowed.
Live-Update Setting. In this setting, information from any point in the past (including the test set
information) can be used to re-train, fine-tune, or update the model. The goal of this setting is to
achieve the best prediction for each timestamp t + 1 given the historical information at all previous
timestamps in [0, ..., t]. We consider this setting as live-update because the model weights can be
updated lively through the incoming data. Note that this setting is similar to the rolling setting
exercised in ROLAND framework [51].
D
Temporal Graph Learning Models
Recently, there is an increasing interest in developing graph representation learning models for
networks that evolve over time. Evolving graphs can be investigated at different time granularity.
Kazemi et al. [21] categorize temporal graphs into Discrete Time Dynamic Graphs (DTDGs) and
Continous Time Dynamic Graphs (CTDGs). DTDGs consist of an ordered set of static graph
snapshots while CTDGs compose of timestamped edge streams where edges are denoted by triplets
of source, destination, and timestamp. DTDG models specialize in sequences of graph snapshots
capturing the dynamics of a temporal graph where these snapshots are sampled at regular time
intervals [51, 13, 32, 14, 49]. In contrast, CTDG methods often aggregate the features from temporal
neighborhood (connected nodes with close time proximity) and constantly adjust the encoding as
edge stream continues [35, 46, 25]. In this work, we primarily focus on CTDGs, driven by several
compelling reasons. First, CTDG models which employ the precise temporal information offered by
CTDGs, can be effectively utilized for DTDGs. On the contrary, adapting DTDG models for drawing
inferences from CTDGs is a non-trivial task. Second, it has been shown that DTDGs are convertible
to CTDGs [40], while the conversion in the opposite direction results in loss of information. Next, we
introduce the methods used in our evaluation for the dynamic link property prediction and dynamic
node property prediction task.
Models Used for Evaluation of Dynamic Link Property Prediction Task.
• DyRep [42] is a temporal point process-based model that propagates interaction messages via
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) to update the node representations. It employs a temporal
attention mechanism to model the weights of a given node’s neighbors.
• TGN [35] is a general framework for learning on continuous time dynamic graphs. It has the
following components: memory module, message function, message aggregator, memory updater,
and embedding module. TGN updates the node memories at test time with newly observed edges.
• GraphMixer [9] is a simple model for dynamic link prediction consisting of three main modules:
a node-encoder to summarize the node information, a link-encoder to summarize the temporal
link information, and a link predictor module. These modules that only utilize Multi-Layer
Perceptrons (MLPs), make GraphMixer a simple model without the use of a GNN architecture.
• TCL [45] employs a transfomer module to generate temporal neighborhood representations for
nodes involved in an interaction. It then models the inter-dependencies with a co-attentional trans-
15
