to another at a time. The network starts from April 1st, 2022, and ends on November 1st, 2022, and
contains transaction data of 5 stablecoins and 1 wrapped token. This duration includes the Terra Luna
crash where the token lost its fixed price of 1 USD. The considered task for this dataset is to predict
with which destination a given address will interact at a given time.
tgbl-comment. This dataset is a directed reply network of Reddit where users reply to each other’s
threads. Each node is a user and each interaction is a reply from one user to another. The network
starts from 2005 and ends at 2010. The considered task for this dataset is to predict if a given user
will reply to another one at a given time.
tgbl-flight. This dataset is a crowd sourced international flight network from 2019 to 2022. The
airports are modeled as nodes, while the edges are flights between airports at a given day. The node
features include the type of the airport, the continent where the airport is located, the ISO region code
of the airport as well as its longitude and latitude. The edge feature is the associated flight number. In
this dataset, our task is to predict whether a flight will happen between two specific airport on a future
date. This is useful for foreseeing potential flight disruptions such as cancellation and delays. For
instance, during the COVID-19 pandemic, many flight routes were cancelled to combat the spread of
COVID-19. In addition, the prediction of global flight network is also important for studying and
forecasting the spread of disease such as COVID-19 to new regions, as shown in [3, 11].
tgbn-trade. This is the international agriculture trading network between nations of the United
Nations (UN) from 1986 to 2016. Each node is a nation and an edge represents the sum trade value
of all agriculture products from one nation to another one. As the data is reported annually, the time
granularity of the dataset is yearly. The considered task for this dataset is to predict the proportion of
agriculture trade values from one nation to other nations during the next year.
tgbn-genre. This is a bipartite and weighted interaction network between users and the music genres
of songs they listen to. Both users and music genres are represented as nodes while an interaction
specifies a user listens to a music genre at a given time. The edge weights denote the percentage of
which a song belongs to a certain genre. The dataset is constructed by cross referencing the songs in
the LastFM-song-listens dataset [24, 15] with that of music genres in the million-song dataset [2].
The LastFM-song-listens dataset has one month of who-listens-to-which-song information for 1000
users and the million-song dataset provides genre weights for all songs in the LastFM-song-listens
dataset. We only retain genres with at least 10% weights for each song that are repeated at least a
thousand times in the dataset. Genre names are cleaned to remove typos. Here, the task is to predict
how frequently each user will interact with music genres over the next week. This is applicable to
many music recommendation systems where providing personalized recommendation is important
and user preference shifts over time.
tgbn-reddit. This is a users and subreddits interaction network. Both users and subreddits are
nodes and each edge indicates that a user posted on a subreddit at a given time. The dataset spans
from 2008 to 2010. The task considered for this dataset is to learn the interaction frequency towards
the subreddits of a user over the next week.
tgbn-token. This is a user and cryptocurrency token transaction network. Both users and tokens are
nodes and each edge indicates the transaction from a user to a token. The edge weights indicate the
amount of token transferred and considering the disparity between weights, we normalized the edge
weights using logarithm. The goal here is to predict how frequently a user will interact with various
types of tokens over the next week. The dataset is extracted and curated from this source [37].
5
Experiments
For dynamic link property prediction, we include DyRep [42], TGN [35], CAWN [46], TCL [45],
GraphMixer [9], NAT [25], TGAT [48] and two deterministic heuristics namely EdgeBanktw and
EdgeBank∞[33]. For dynamic node property prediction, we include DyRep, TGN, and deterministic
heuristics such as persistence forecast [36] and moving average [31]. Details about the above
methods are presented in Appendix D. The computing resources are discussed Appendix E. For
the experimental results, we report the average and standard deviation across 5 different runs. We
highlight the best results in bold and underline the second place results.
7
