(a) Density.                              (b) Clustering coefﬁcient.                              (c) Assortativity.

Figure 7: Network measures computed for each coordinated community, as a function of the extent of coordination. By studying
the whole extent of coordination among users, we are able to highlight the radically different patterns of coordination that
characterize different communities, as highlighted by opposite trends in given network measures.


plying that the most coordinated users in that community
are likely not colluded nor organized between themselves.
On the contrary, the most coordinated members of B60 are
likely well-organized together, as shown by the density spike
observed when coordination ≥0.8. Clustering coefﬁcient,
shown in Figure 7b, provides similar results with respect to
density. In fact, it shows decreasing trends for SNP, LCH
and TVT, as well as rising trends for CON and LAB and, to
a much greater extent, for B60. Trends in density and clus-
tering coefﬁcient conﬁrm that coordination ≃0.9 appears to
be a representative value for LCH.
   Finally, we evaluate the assortativity of coordinated net-
works. Here, assortativity measures the extent to which
nodes with a high degree are connected to other nodes                    (a)  B60.                       (b)  LCH.
with a high degree, and vice versa. Again, different patterns
emerge. In particular, some coordinated communities (e.g.,      Figure 8: Application of word shift graphs for highlight-
ASE and LAB) are moderately disassortative. This result rep-      ing narratives that characterize coordinated communities.
resents a situation where a few nodes with a high degree are     Words are ranked based on their contribution towards dif-
connected to many nodes with a low degree, realizing a net-       ferentiating coordinated and non-coordinated users. Yellow-
work structure that is similar to a star. In turn, this highlights      colored words (right-hand side of each word shift graph)
a coordination pattern characterized by a few hubs supported       are in-formative for coordinated users, while blue-colored
by many less important nodes – a pattern already found to      words(left-hand side) are informative for non-coordinated
be informative when studying online manipulations (Nizzoli       users.
et al. 2020). Conversely, the B60 community appears to be
strongly assortative, especially when considering coordina-
tion in the region of 0.8. This ﬁnding represents a situation                                                       which allow comparing two corpora by highlighting those
where many similar nodes are connected to each other, re-                                                            terms that mostly contribute to differentiate them. We ap-
inforcing the idea of a clique of coordinated peers. By com-                                                               ply word shift graphs in our context by selecting all tweets
bining all results shown in Figure 7, the B60 community                                                             shared by members of a community as the reference corpus
appears to be well-described by a coordination value ≃0.8.                                                       and all tweets shared by strongly-coordinated users in that
  Themes and narratives. Until now, we have only lever-     community as the comparison corpus. Meaningful strongly-
aged network measures to characterize coordinated commu-      coordinated users from a community can be picked by lever-
nities. However, their content production can also reveal in-      aging the results of our previous network-based analyses.
teresting insights into their preferred narratives. Here, we      For instance, the B60 community can be assigned a coor-
propose and brieﬂy experiment with a text-based analysis       dination value ≃0.8 while LCH can be characterized by
that can be used to investigate the activity of coordinated      coordination ≃0.9. Thus, in Figure 8 we highlight con-
groups. In particular, we are interested in highlighting the       tent production differences between all users in B60 and
differences in the content produced by the coordinated users     LCH, with respect to the users in those communities whose
in a community, with respect to all other – less coordi-      coordination ≥0.8 and 0.9, respectively. In ﬁgures, words
nated – users of that community. One way to reach our goal       are ranked based on their contribution towards differentiat-
is by exploiting word shift graphs (Gallagher et al. 2020),      ing coordinated and non-coordinated users. Yellow-colored
