of LCH for which we measured overall higher automation
                                                                    scores. Other communities are more affected by Twitter sus-
                                                                pensions, such as both clusters of Conservative users (CON
                                                       and ASE). Interestingly, we notice a marked downward trend
                                                                of suspensions for the B60 group, which might indicate an
                                                                    authentic, strongly-coordinated grassroots initiative.
                                                                    Overall, our results conﬁrm that coordination and automa-
                                                                     tion are two different and orthogonal concepts. On the one
                                                             hand, this suggests that using automation and bot detection
                                                                     to study CIB might be ineffective and leading to inaccurate
                                                                           results. On the other hand, it motivates to complement exist-   (a) Mean Botometer scores.       (b) Suspended accounts.
                                                               ing analyses on IOs with new results that are based on the
Figure 9: Correlation between coordination and use of au-      study of coordinated behaviors.
tomation, in terms of bot scores estimated by Botometer,
and accounts suspend by Twitter. Both indicators of possible              Comparative evaluation
automation appear to be two orthogonal and largely uncor-     The analysis carried out so far demonstrated how our frame-
related with respect to coordination.                        work embeds – and therefore allows investigating – the in-
                                                                           trinsic properties of coordinated behavior. In fact, by avoid-
                                                               ing to enforce a binary separation between coordinated vs.
words (right-hand side of each word shift graph) are in-      uncoordinated behaviors, we were able to study this phe-
formative for coordinated users, while blue-colored words     nomenon across its entire spectrum, thus measuring the in-
(left-hand side) are informative for non-coordinated users.        trinsic coordination of each emerging community and char-
The informativeness of the different words towards char-       acterizing it under multiple dimensions of analysis. To high-
acterizing coordinated users (i.e., their shift) is computed       light the theoretical and practical contribution of our novel
by means of Shannon entropy (Gallagher et al. 2020). As      framework, in this section we compare our ﬁndings with
shown, this analysis reveals that coordinated users embrace      those obtainable with previous, threshold-based approaches.
much more speciﬁc narratives and themes with respect to           First, we consider the unﬁltered user similarity network,
non-coordinated users. In fact, while both B60 and LCH are       that is what we obtained after carrying out step 3 of our
characterized by generic Labour topics, coordinated users in      framework, as outlined in Figure 1. This  is where our
those communities ﬁght for 50s women’s rights and against     method departs from previous approaches. Then, we set an
the loan charge tax.                                                    arbitrary, very strict threshold, and we cut all those edges
  Use of automation. As a last experiment on coordi-     whose weight is below the threshold, and the resulting dis-
nated behavior, we are interested in evaluating the relation-      connected nodes. Finally, we visualize the obtained ﬁltered
ship between coordination and the use of automation. De-      networks. By comparing the results obtained in this way
tection of automation (e.g., social bots) has been a matter      with those of our framework, we can comparatively evalu-
of study for years and has been one of the most widely       ate the contributions of steps 4-6, which constitute the main
used approaches for investigating online deception and ma-      novelty of our work.
nipulation (Cresci 2020). Many bot detection techniques      We set the ﬁltering threshold to 0.9, following the value
have been proposed (Chavoshi, Hamooni, and Mueen 2016;      proposed in (Pacheco et al. 2020) for a similar, co-retweet-
Varol et al. 2017; Cresci et al. 2018; Mazza et al. 2019),      based analysis. We recall that here we are directly consid-
but their effectiveness towards tracking IOs and CIB  is       ering edge weights, following previous approaches, whereas
still debated12. For these reasons, we compared our assess-       in our framework the coordination was measured as a per-
ments on coordination with the automation score provided       centile rank. We refer to the edge weight distribution shown
by Botometer (Yang et al. 2019). We used the maximum of       in Figure 3 to compare values. Figure 10c shows the re-
Botometer’s English and universal scores, both provided in       sulting ﬁltered network, where only six edges managed to
the [0, 1] range, as our automation score. In addition, we also       satisfy the condition. On the one hand, such severe ﬁlter-
considered Twitter suspensions as an indicator of possible      ing ensures that all the surviving edges are undoubtedly re-
automation or inauthenticity. Then, similarly to our previ-       lated to coordinated behaviors. On the other, it discards a
ous analyses, we reported the mean automation scores and      huge amount of information, whose usefulness is not limited
the percentage of suspended users for the different coordi-       to uncover much more accounts characterized by a certain
nated communities as a function of coordination. Figure 9       extent of coordination. Conversely, by adopting a more ad-
shows the results of this analysis. Automation appears to be      vanced ﬁltering technique, based on extracting the network
almost completely uncorrelated with coordination. Indepen-       multiscale backbone, our framework (in step 4) retained all
dently of coordination, results do not show meaningful dif-       the signiﬁcant structures of the network, while keeping the
ferences between our communities, with the sole exception     amount of information manageable. Then, by surfacing co-
                                                                ordinated groups of accounts within the related communities
   12Y. Roth, and N. Pickles, “Bot or not? The facts about platform      through the novel coordination-aware community detection
manipulation on Twitter.” Twitter, date. Available at https://blog.      algorithm (step 5), our framework enabled us to discover
twitter.com/en us/topics/company/2020/bot-or-not.html                possible shifts in the supported themes and narratives, and
