variation in growth rates fluctuates significantly across both
two datasets, highlighting different cascade incremental pat-
terns, which contributes to the uncertainty in depicting fu-
ture diffusion trends. Subsequently, achieving robust pop-
ularity prediction necessitates accommodating such uncer-
tainties by accounting for cascade evolution patterns after
the observation period. Nevertheless, the actual dynamic
changes in cascades during this period are invisible when
performing real-time popularity prediction.
Against this background, we resort to generative models
to simulate the cascade evolving patterns between the ob-
servation and prediction times for boosting popularity pre-
diction performance. However, there exist two difficulties in
characterizing the unique features in the patterns: 1) the in-
cremental popularity equals the integral of the growth rate,
which is highly fluctuated as evidenced by Figure 1; and 2)
information diffusion is a complex propagation process that
is susceptible to external factors, resulting in varying pat-
terns of uncertainties that need to accommodate.
To address these challenges, we propose CasFT, a novel
information popularity prediction technique that aims to
capture the evolving patterns of information Cascades
over time, in particular, the Future propagation Trend.
CasFT leverages neural Ordinary Differential Equations
(ODEs) (Chen et al. 2018) to model the growth rate based
on corresponding graph structure and sequential event infor-
mation under observation, propagate the growth rate from
the observation time to the prediction time, and calculates
the cumulative popularity during several periods by the inte-
gration of the growth rate. We take the historical information
diffusion representation and the future dynamic cumulative
popularity as conditions, adopt diffusion models to generate
the future trend of information popularity, and fuse the cas-
cade representation with the generated cues for prediction.
In summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We revisit the existing cascade popularity prediction
methods and identify the importance of modeling future
trends of popularity after observation which contributes to
the final prediction.
• We propose CasFT, which is designed to capture the
evolving dynamic patterns of both the information cas-
cades and growth rate with neural ODEs. We leverage dif-
fusion models to generate future trends of popularity and
concatenate them with dynamic cascade representations
together for prediction.
• We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate CasFT on
several real-world information cascade datasets. Results
show that CasFT achieves superior performance compared
to a sizeable collection of state-of-the-art baselines on
the information popularity prediction task, yielding 2.2%-
19.3% improvement over the best-performing baselines
across different datasets.
Related Work
In the current literature, cascade popularity prediction tech-
niques can be roughly classified into three categories.
Feature-based approaches: Feature-based approaches ex-
tract observed features manually which include informa-
tion about the content, such as tags (Ma, Sun, and Cong
2013), topic features (Martin et al. 2016), and graph struc-
tures (Gao, Ma, and Chen 2014; Wang et al. 2016), tempo-
ral features such as publication time (Petrovic, Osborne, and
Lavrenko 2011; Wu et al. 2016), observation time (Cheng
et al. 2014; Yang and Leskovec 2011), first participation
time (Zaman, Fox, and Bradlow 2014), etc. However, these
works heavily rely on the quality of hand-crafted features
and thus have limited generalizability.
Generative-based approaches: These methods use proba-
bilistic models to describe the propagation, including epi-
demic models (Matsubara et al. 2012), survival analy-
sis (Lee, Moon, and Salamatian 2012), and various stochas-
tic point processes, e.g., Poisson process (Bao et al. 2015),
Hawkes process (Zhao et al. 2015), (Zhang, Aravamudan,
and Anagnostopoulos 2022). However, the selection of un-
derlying probabilistic models can lead to significant differ-
ences in performance.
Deep-learning-based approaches: The recent rapid devel-
opment of deep learning has also spurred the emergence
of numerous information cascade models based on deep
neural networks. DeepHawkes (Cao et al. 2017) constructs
an end-to-end network by Hawkes processes. DeepCas (Li
et al. 2017) is the first cascade graph representation learning
method, capturing both structural and temporal information.
VaCas (Zhou et al. 2020a) and CasFlow (Xu et al. 2021)
propose a hierarchical graph learning method using varia-
tional autoencoders or normalizing flows to model uncer-
tainty in cascade graphs, and a bidirectional GRU to capture
temporal dynamics. CasSeqGCN (Wang et al. 2022) aggre-
gates cascade node representations using a dynamic routing
mechanism. CTCP (Lu et al. 2023)integrates multiple cas-
cades into a diffusion graph to further capture the correla-
tion between cascades and users. However, existing methods
only consider modeling cascades within observation. We ar-
gue that CasFT incorporates the future trends of popularity,
thereby improving the prediction performance.
Preliminaries
In this section, we present the definitions of key concepts
in our work and give a brief introduction to the concepts of
neural ODEs and diffusion models.
Problem Definition
Suppose that a Twitter user u0 posts a tweet I at time ts = 0
(we set the start time to 0) and other users can interact with
tweet I through various actions such as liking, retweeting,
and commenting. Here we focus on the “retweet” behav-
ior, while our work can also be generalized to other actions.
Specifically, when a user u1 retweets I posted by user u0
at time t1, we can define a triplet (u0, u1, t1) to present the
diffusion of information I from user u0 to user u1. Subse-
quently, a series of such triplets constitutes a retweet cas-
cade C. Specifically, within a given observation time to, the
retweet cascade C(to) can be defined as the set of all rele-
vant triplets, i.e., C(to) = {(ui1, ui2, ti)}i∈N, where N rep-
resents the total number of triplets involved in the retweet
process during the observation period and ti ≤to.
11907
