Cascade Graph: Given a tweet I and an observation time
to, the cascade graph can be defined as G(to) = (Vc, Ec),
where Vc represents the set of users involved in C(to), and
Ec represents the set of edges, each denoting a retweet rela-
tionship between two users (nodes).
Cascade Sequence: Different from the cascade graph, the
cascade sequence S(to) for cascade C(to) is a collection of
users, each arranged in chronological order based on their
timestamps, i.e., S(to) = {u0, u1, . . . , uN}.
Global Graph: Given all the retweet cascades under the
observation time to, we define the global graph as G =
{GI(to)|I ∈I}, where the edge in Eg represents the node
relationship from cascading, such as the follower/followee
relationship in the social network.
Cascade Popularity Prediction: Given a cascade C(to) and
a duration to, we predict its incremental popularity P over
the time interval from to to tp , where tp ≫to, and tp is the
prediction time. P represents the number of triplets occur-
ring during the time period (to, tp).
Neural Ordinary Differential Equations
A neural Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) (Chen et al.
2018) describes the continuous-time evolution of variables.
It represents a transformation of variables over time, where
the initial state at time t0, denoted as h(t0), is integrated
forward using an ODE to determine the transformed state at
any subsequent time ti.
dh(t)
dt
= f(h(t), t; θ)
where
h(0) = h0
(1)
h(ti) = h(t0) +
Z ti
t0
dh(t)
dt
dt,
(2)
where f denotes a neural network, such as a feed-forward or
convolutional network.
Diffusion Models
Diffusion models (Ho, Jain, and Abbeel 2020) are used to
generate high-quality samples from complex data distribu-
tions through a bi-directional process.
The forward process of diffusion model is a Markov
Chain that gradually adds Gaussian noise to x0:
q(x1:T |x0) =
T
Y
t=1
q(xt|xt−1),
(3)
q(xt|xt−1) = N(xt;
p
1 −βtxt−1, βtI),
(4)
where T is the timesteps of adding noise and βt ∈(0, 1) is
the variance schedule.
For the denoising process, the goal is to learn a condi-
tional probability distribution pθ(xt−1|xt) that reverses the
diffusion process:
pθ(xt−1|xt) = N(xt−1; µθ(xt, t), σθ(xt, t)I),
(5)
where the parameter θ can be optimized by minimizing
the negative log-likelihood via an Evidence Lower Bound
(ELBO):
min
θ
Eq(x0) ≤min
θ
Eq(x0:K)L
(6)
L = −log p(xK) −
K
X
k=1
log pθ(xk−1|xk)
q(xk|xk−1)
(7)
Our Method: CasFT
Our proposed CasFT can be summarized as a three-step
model: the first step involves extracting spatiotemporal pat-
terns from the observed cascade, the second step simulates
the future trends of popularity increment, and the third step
makes the final prediction. The overall framework is shown
in Fig. 2. We discuss the key components below.
Historical Spatiotemporal Modeling
Given an observed cascade C(t0), CasFT first extracts the
spatiotemporal features from it. Specifically, this step in-
volves two components: (1) spatial structural pattern extrac-
tion from the observed cascade graph G(t0) and the global
graph G, and (2) temporal pattern extraction based on the
cascade sequence. The details are outlined as follows.
Spatial Structural Pattern Extraction:
In light of the
distinct characteristics between the cascade and global
graphs, we employ two different graph embedding methods
to extract unique structural patterns from each, respectively.
For the cascade graph, we use GraphWave (Donnat et al.
2018) to capture local structural information, as referenced
in previous studies (Zhou et al. 2020b; Xu et al. 2021). For
the large-scale global graph, we employ NetSMF (Qiu et al.
2019), which is designed for large-scale networks and can
quickly learn interactions between all users, efficiently em-
bedding these global structural patterns into node embed-
dings. Specifically, given the observed cascade graph G(to)
and the global graph G, we calculate the local-view and
global-view representations of users as follows:
Ec = GraphWave(G(to)),
(8)
Eg = NetSMF(G),
(9)
where Ec and Eg represent local-view and global-view rep-
resentations for users in G(to) and G, respectively. For a spe-
cific user ui, we retrieve its representations from these two
views according to its index, denoted as Ec(ui) and Eg(ui).
Temporal Pattern Extraction:
In this phase, we split
the cascade sequence S(to) into multiple sub-sequences
in chronological order, represented as S = {Sj}j∈N =
{(u0), (u0, u1), . . . , (u0, u1, ..., uN)}, and employ the self-
attention mechanism (Vaswani et al. 2017) to each sub-
sequence to capture its internal interdependencies, thereby
accounting for the long-term history information. Firstly, for
each timestamp ti, we define a temporal encoding procedure
by trigonometric functions:
[z(ti)]j =
(
cos(ti/10000
j−1
B ), if j is odd,
sin(ti/10000
j
B ), if j is even.
(10)
We deterministically compute z(ti) ∈RB, where B is the
dimension of encoding and get Zt which is the set of z(ti).
11908
