CasFT: Future Trend Modeling for Information Popularity Prediction with
Dynamic Cues-Driven Diffusion Models
Xin Jing1, Yichen Jing1, Yuhuan Lu1 Bangchao Deng1, Xueqin Chen2, Dingqi Yang1*
1The State Key Laboratory of Internet of Things for Smart City, University of Macau, China
2Kash Institute of Electronics and Information Industry
{yc27431, mc35259, yc17462, yc37980, dingqiyang}@um.edu.mo, nedchen0728@gmail.com
Abstract
The rapid spread of diverse information on online social plat-
forms has prompted both academia and industry to realize
the importance of predicting content popularity, which could
benefit a wide range of applications, such as recommendation
systems and strategic decision-making. Recent works mainly
focused on extracting spatiotemporal patterns inherent in the
information diffusion process within a given observation pe-
riod so as to predict its popularity over a future period of time.
However, these works often overlook the future popularity
trend, as future popularity could either increase exponentially
or stagnate, introducing uncertainties to the prediction per-
formance. Additionally, how to transfer the preceding-term
dynamics learned from the observed diffusion process into
future-term trends remains an unexplored challenge. Against
this background, we propose CasFT, which leverages ob-
served information Cascades and dynamic cues extracted via
neural ODEs as conditions to guide the generation of Fu-
ture popularity-increasing Trends through a diffusion model.
These generated trends are then combined with the spatiotem-
poral patterns in the observed information cascade to make
the final popularity prediction. Extensive experiments con-
ducted on three real-world datasets demonstrate that CasFT
significantly improves the prediction accuracy compared to
state-of-the-art approaches.
Introduction
The advent of the digital age has led to the emergence of
various online social platforms (OSNs). Users on OSNs can
freely post and share their interests, which can then be fol-
lowed or re-posted by others, resulting in the widespread
dissemination of content in the form of information cas-
cades (Cheng et al. 2014). In such an era of information
explosion, understanding future trends in information —
predicting its future popularity — can aid social manage-
ment (Shen et al. 2014) and benefit various applications, in-
cluding recommendation systems (Wang et al. 2021), fake
news detection (Lazer et al. 2018), social event organization
(Yu et al. 2015), and personalized user experiences (Li et al.
2014). Specifically, this prediction task, known as informa-
tion popularity prediction, aims at forecasting the future in-
crease in the popularity of given content, such as predicting
*Corresponding author
Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
{
{
{
{
P1
P1
P2
P2
P3
P3
P4
P4
Time
 Incremental Popularity
Observed Cascade Graph
Original tweet
Observed retweet
prediction
u0
u0 
u1
u1 
u2
u2 
u3
u3
u4
u4
tsts
t1t1  t2t2 
t3t3 
t4t4 
Growth Rate
P = ∫
tp
to
λ*(τ)dτ =
l
∑
i
Pi
P = ∫
tp
to
λ*(τ)dτ =
l
∑
i
Pi
= 0
= 0
toto
tptp
toto
toto
tptp
tptp
Figure 1: A toy example of information popularity predic-
tion problem (top) and the variations of average growth rates
after observation time in Weibo and APS datasets, respec-
tively (bottom), where t0 represents the observation time and
tp represents the prediction time.
the number of retweets that may occur within a specified
period in the future for a tweet.
State-of-the-art approaches mainly focus on capturing
spatiotemporal patterns from observed cascades by adopting
various deep learning techniques, such as Recurrent Neural
Networks (RNNs) (Lu et al. 2023), attention mechanism (Yu
et al. 2022) or Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) (Wang et al.
2022; Chen et al. 2019). However, existing approaches pre-
dominantly focus on modeling cascades before an obser-
vation time, neglecting their evolution of trends between
the observation time and the prediction time, which is vi-
tal for popularity prediction. For instance, Figure 1 illus-
trates the average popularity growth rates between obser-
vation (to) and prediction (tp) times in Twitter and APS
datasets, where the growth rate represents the increase of
popularity per unit of time. Notably, during this period, the
The Thirty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-25)
11906
