Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021





  Algorithm 1: Temporal Walk Extraction (E, α, M, m, w0, t0)       The rule: “one node (e.g. u) interacts
                                                                                           with other nodes only if another node
1 Initialize M walks: Wi ←((w0, t0)), 1 ≤i ≤M ;                          interacts with this node at least twice.”
2 for j from 1 to m do                                                                                                                            𝑡3                                                                                                           𝑡1                                                                                                       a                                                                                       a         u                                                                                 u
3     for i from 1 to M do
4        (wp, tp) ←the last (node, time) pair in Wi;                       u   𝑡2  a         u  𝑡4  b
5       Sample one (e, t) ∈Ewp,tp with prob. ∝exp(α(t −tp))
         Denote e = {w′, w} and then Wi ←Wi ⊕(w′, t);            𝑢takes action   𝑢NOT takes action
                                                                Figure 4:  The correlation be-
6 Return {Wi|1 ≤i ≤M};                                        tween walks needs to be captured
                                                                                 to learn this law.

  Our CAW-N removes node identities and leverages relative node identities to avoid the issue in Fig. 3.
  Detailed explanations are given in Sec.4.2.

  Network-embedding approaches may also be applied to temporal networks (Zhou et al., 2018; Du
  et al., 2018; Mahdavi et al., 2018; Singer et al., 2019; Nguyen et al., 2018). However, they directly
  assign each node with a learnable vector. Therefore, they are not inductive and cannot digest attributes.

 3  PROBLEM FORMULATION AND NOTATIONS
  Problem Formulation. A temporal network can be represented as a sequence of links that come in
  over time, i.e. E = {(e1, t1), (e2, t2), ...} where ei is a link and ti is the timestamp showing when
  ei arrives. Each link ei corresponds to a dyadic event between two nodes {vi, ui}. For simplicity,
 we ﬁrst assume those links to be undirected and without attributes while later we discuss how to
  generalized our method to directed attributed networks. The sequence of links encodes network
  dynamics. Therefore, the capability of a model for representation learning of temporal networks is
  typically evaluated by how accurately it may predict future links based on the historical links (Sarkar
  et al., 2012). In this work, we also use link prediction as the metric. Note that we care not only the
  link prediction between the nodes that have been seen during the training. We also expect the models
  to predict links between the nodes that has never been seen as the inductive evaluation.
  Notations. We deﬁne Ev,t = {(e, t′) ∈E|t′ < t, v ∈e} to include the links attached to a node v
  before certain time t. A walk W (reverse over time) on temporal networks can be represented as

  W = ((w0, t0), (w1, t1), ..., (wm, tm)), t0 > t1 > · · · > tm, ({wi−1, wi}, ti) ∈E for all i.  (1)

 We use W[i] to denote the ith node-time pair, and W[i][0] and W[i][1] to denote the corresponding
  node and time in W[i] correspondingly. Later, we also use ⊕as vector concatenation.

  Temporal network motifs are deﬁned as connected subgraphs that consist of links appearing within
  a restricted time range (Kovanen et al., 2011). Based this deﬁnition, each walk deﬁned in Eq. 1
  naturally corresponds to a temporal network motif as long as (t1 −tm) is in the time range.

 4  PROPOSED METHOD: CAUSAL ANONYMOUS WALK-NETWORK
  4.1  PRELIMINARIES: ANONYMOUS WALK AND TEMPORAL NETWORK MOTIF
 Anonymous walks were ﬁrst considered by Micali & Zhu (2016) to study the reconstruction of a
 Markov process from the records without sharing a common “name space”. AWs can be directly
  rephrased in the network context. Speciﬁcally, an AW starts from a node, performs random walks
  over the graph to collect a walk of nodes, e.g. (v1, v2, ..., vm). AW has an important anonymization
  step to replace the node identities by the orders of their appearance in each walk, which we term
  relative node identities in AW and deﬁne it as
        IAW (w; W) ≜|{v0, v1, ..., vk∗}|, where k∗is the smallest index s.t. vk∗= w.       (2)

  Note that the set operation above removes duplicated elements. Although AW removes node identities,
  those nodes are still distinguishable within this walk. Therefore, an AW can be viewed as a network
  motif while the information on which speciﬁc nodes form this motif is removed. Examples of AWs
  are shown as follows. While these are two different walks, they may be mapped to the same AW
 when node identities get removed.
                                   Walks                  Anonymous Walks               Network Motifs
                          a     b     a      c
                                                      1     2     1     3              2     1     3
                        b      c     b     a     Each walk gets anonymized independently


                                         4
