2                        3

                               1                                                                              loss



                                                                            Edge
                                         Node Embeddings
          1         2                                                                          Probabilities

          2         3

                            4
               Batch
                                                       5                           6





                                                               Aggregated                   (Updated)
                                  Messages
                                                          Messages                 Memory

Figure 1: Computations performed by TGN on a batch of time-stamped interactions. Top: embeddings
are produced by the embedding module using the temporal graph and the node’s memory (1). The
embeddings are then used to predict the batch interactions and compute the loss (2, 3). Bottom: these
same interactions are used to update the memory (4, 5, 6). This is a simpliﬁed ﬂow of operations
which would prevent the training of all the modules in the bottom as they would not receiving a
gradient. Section 3.2 explains how to change the ﬂow of operations to solve this problem and ﬁgure 2
shows the complete diagram.


Thanks to this speciﬁc module, TGNs have the capability to memorize long term dependencies for
each node in the graph. When a new node is encountered, its memory is initialized as the zero vector,
and it is then updated for each event involving the node, even after the model has ﬁnished training.
While a global (graph-wise) memory can also be added to the model to track the evolution of the
entire network, we leave this as future work.

Message Function.  For each event involving node i, a message is computed to update i’s memory.
In the case of an interaction event eij(t) between source node i and target node j at time t, two
messages can be computed:
 mi(t) = msgs  si(t−), sj(t−), ∆t, eij(t)  ,    mj(t) = msgd  sj(t−), si(t−), ∆t, eij(t)    (1)

Similarly, in case of a node-wise event vi(t), a single message can be computed for the node involved
in the event:
                         mi(t) = msgn  si(t−), t, vi(t)  .                                 (2)

Here, si(t−) is the memory of node i just before time t (i.e., from the time of the previous inter-
action involving i) and msgs, msgd and msgn are learnable message functions, e.g. MLPs. In all
experiments, we choose the message function as identity (id), which is simply the concatenation of
the inputs, for the sake of simplicity. Deletion events are also supported by the framework and are
presented in Appendix A.1. A more complex message function that involves additional aggregation
from the neighbours of nodes i and j is also possible and is left for future study.

Message Aggregator.  Resorting to batch processing for efﬁciency reasons may lead to multiple
events involving the same node i in the same batch. As each event generates a message in our
formulation, we use a mechanism to aggregate messages mi(t1), . . . , mi(tb) for t1, . . . , tb ≤t,

                             ¯mi(t) = agg (mi(t1), . . . , mi(tb)) .                                (3)

Here, agg is an aggregation function. While multiple choices can be considered for implementing
this module (e.g. RNNs or attention w.r.t. the node memory), for the sake of simplicity we considered
two efﬁcient non-learnable solutions in our experiments: most recent message (keep only most recent
message for a given node) and mean message (average all messages for a given node). We leave
learnable aggregation as a future research direction.

Memory Updater.  As previously mentioned, the memory of a node is updated upon each event
involving the node itself:
                                 si(t) = mem  ¯mi(t), si(t−)  .                                   (4)


                                       3
