and evolving (i.e. new nodes join the graph continuously). Only recently, several approaches have
been proposed that support the continuous-time scenario (Xu et al., 2020; Trivedi et al., 2019; Kumar
et al., 2019; Ma et al., 2018; Nguyen et al., 2018; Bastas et al., 2019).

Contributions.  In this paper, we ﬁrst propose the generic inductive framework of Temporal Graph
Networks (TGNs) operating on continuous-time dynamic graphs represented as a sequence of
events, and show that many previous methods are speciﬁc instances of TGNs. Second, we propose
a novel training strategy allowing the model to learn from the sequentiality of the data while
maintaining highly efﬁcient parallel processing. Third, we perform a detailed ablation study of
different components of our framework and analyze the tradeoff between speed and accuracy. Finally,
we show state-of-the-art performance on multiple tasks and datasets in both transductive and inductive
settings, while being much faster than previous methods.

2  BACKGROUND

Deep learning on static graphs. A static graph G = (V, E) comprises nodes V = {1, . . . , n} and
edges E ⊆V × V, which are endowed with features, denoted by vi and eij for all i, j = 1, . . . , n,
respectively. A typical graph neural network (GNN) creates an embedding zi of the nodes by learning
a local aggregation rule of the form
                       zi = X h(mij, vi)      mij = msg(vi, vj, eij),
                           j∈Ni
which is interpreted as message passing from the neighbors j of i. Here, Ni = {j  : (i, j) ∈E}
denotes the neighborhood of node i and msg and h are learnable functions.

Dynamic Graphs.  There exist two main models for dynamic graphs. Discrete-time dynamic graphs
(DTDG) are sequences of static graph snapshots taken at intervals in time. Continuos-time dynamic
graphs (CTDG) are more general and can be represented as timed lists of events, which may include
edge addition or deletion, node addition or deletion and node or edge feature transformations.

Our temporal (multi-)graph is modeled as a sequence of time-stamped events G = {x(t1), x(t2), . . .},
representing addition or change of a node or interaction between a pair of nodes at times 0 ≤t1 ≤
t2 ≤. . .. An event x(t) can be of two types: 1) A node-wise event is represented by vi(t), where i
denotes the index of the node and v is the vector attribute associated with the event. If the index i
has not been seen before, the event creates node i (with the given features), otherwise it updates the
features. 2) An interaction event between nodes i and j is represented by a (directed) temporal edge
eij(t) (there might be more than one edge between a pair of nodes, so technically this is a multigraph).
We denote by V(T) = {i  : ∃vi(t) ∈G, t ∈T} and E(T) = {(i, j)  : ∃eij(t) ∈G, t ∈T}
the temporal set of vertices and edges, respectively, and by Ni(T) = {j  :  (i, j) ∈E(T)} the
neighborhood of node i in time interval T. Nki (T) denotes the k-hop neighborhood. A snapshot of
the temporal graph G at time t is the (multi-)graph G(t) = (V[0, t], E[0, t]) with n(t) nodes. Deletion
events are discussed in Appendix A.1.

3  TEMPORAL GRAPH NETWORKS

Following the terminology in (Kazemi et al., 2020), a neural model for dynamic graphs can be
regarded as an encoder-decoder pair, where an encoder is a function that maps from a dynamic
graph to node embeddings, and a decoder takes as input one or more node embeddings and makes a
task-speciﬁc prediction e.g. node classiﬁcation or edge prediction. The key contribution of this paper
is a novel Temporal Graph Network (TGN) encoder applied on a continuous-time dynamic graph
represented as a sequence of time-stamped events and producing, for each time t, the embedding of
the graph nodes Z  t) = (z1(t), . . . , zn(t)(t)  .

3.1  CORE MODULES

Memory.  The memory (state) of the model at time t consists of a vector si(t) for each node i the
model has seen so far. The memory of a node is updated after an event (e.g. interaction with another
node or node-wise change), and its purpose is to represent the node’s history in a compressed format.


                                       2
