— meaning they appear to perform better than they would in real-world applications — due to the
inherent limitations of commonly used evaluation protocols.

This over-optimism creates serious challenges for researchers. It becomes increasingly difficult to
 distinguish between the strengths and weaknesses of various methods when their test results suggest
 similarly high performance. Furthermore, there is a discrepancy between real-world applications of
TG methods and the existing evaluation protocols used to assess them. Therefore, there is a pressing
need for an open and standardized benchmark that enhance the evaluation process for temporal graph
 learning, while being aligned with real-world applications.

In this work, we present the Temporal Graph Benchmark (TGB), a collection of challenging and
diverse benchmark datasets for realistic, reproducible, and robust evaluation for machine learning on
temporal graphs. Figure 2 shows TGB’s ML pipeline. Inspired by the success of OGB, TGB automates
the process of dataset downloading and processing as well as evaluation protocols, and allows the
user to easily compare their model performance with other models on the public leaderboard. TGB
improves the evaluation of temporal graph learning in both dataset selection and evaluation protocol
and covers both edge and node-level tasks.

Dataset Selection. Contrary to real-world     10 9
networks that typically contain millions of            TGB da ta sets          Existing da ta sets
nodes and tens of millions of edges, ex-    10 8                    tgbl-flight tgbn-token  tgbl-com m ent
 isting TG benchmark datasets are notably                   tgbn-genre
                                                                           7                     tgbn-reddit    tgbl-coinsmaller, falling short by several orders of      edges 10
magnitude [33, 40].  Furthermore, these  of
                                                                                              tgbl-review
                                                                           6datasets often have limitations in terms   ber 10
of their domain diversity, with a substan-                                           um
 tial focus on social and interaction net- N    5                                   <1M timestamps                                            10
works [35, 24, 25]. This lack of diversity                                             ~30M timestamps
can be problematic as network properties,
such as network motifs [27], the scale-free     10 104                                                                              1          10 3          10 5          10 7
property [4], and the modular structure [30]                  N um ber of nodes
vary significantly across different domains.
                                          Figure 1: TGB consists of a diverse set of datasets thatConsequently, it is important to benchmark
                                             are one order of magnitude larger than existing datasetsexisting methods across a wide variety of
                                              in terms of number of nodes, edges, and timestamps.domains for a comprehensive evaluation.

To address these limitations, TGB datasets
provide diversity in terms of the number of nodes, edges, timestamps, and network domains. As
shown in Figure 1, TGB datasets are larger in scale and present statistics that were under-explored
 in prior literature. For instance, the tgbn-token dataset has around 73 million edges while the
tgbl-comment dataset has more than 30 million timestamps. Additionally, TGB introduces four
datasets in the novel node affinity prediction task to address the scarcity of large scale datasets for
node-level tasks in the current literature.

Improved Evaluation. In TGB, we aim to design the evaluation for both edge and node-level tasks
on temporal graphs based on real applications. Historically, the standard approach for dynamic link
prediction evaluation is to treat it as a binary classification task using one negative edge per positive
edge in the test set [9, 40, 25, 33]. This strategy tends to generate negatives that are easy to predict,
given the structure and sparsity of real-world networks [1], leading to inflated model performance
estimations [33]. To address this issue, we propose to treat this task as a ranking problem, contrasting
each positive sample against multiple negatives and using Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) as the
metric. Moreover, historical negatives – past edges absent in the current step – are generally more
 difficult to predict correctly than randomly sampled negatives [33]. Thus, we sample both historical
and random negatives in link prediction evaluations.

There is a lack of large-scale datasets for node-level tasks in temporal graphs as acquiring dynamic
node labels remains challenging due to privacy concerns. We plan to include additional datasets for
node classification in the future. As a starting point, we present the novel node affinity prediction task,
which finds its motivation in recommendation systems. The objective is to anticipate the shifts in user
preferences for items over time, as expanded in Section 3.2. In this task, node property is considered
as the affinity towards different items at a given time. To assess the effectiveness of methods in
addressing this task, we adopt the Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) metric. This



                                        2
