graph dataset for anomalous node detection in financial networks and compared the performance
of different graph anomaly detection methods. In this work, TGB datasets have more edges and
timestamps while covering both edge and node tasks.

Temporal Graph Methods. With the growing interest in temporal graph learning, several recent
models achieved outstanding performance on existing benchmark datasets. However, due to the
limitations of the current evaluation, many methods achieve over-optimistic and similar performance
for the dynamic link prediction task [46, 35, 9, 40, 25, 24]. In this work, TGB datasets and evaluation
show a clear distinction between SOTA model performance, which helps facilitate future advancement
of TG learning methods. Temporal graphs are categorized into discrete-time and continuous-time
temporal graphs [21]. In this work, we focus on the continuous-time temporal graphs as it is more
general. Continuous-time TG methods can be divided into node or edge representation learning
methods. Node-based models such as TGN [35], DyRep [42] and TCL [45] first leverage the node
information such as temporal neighborhood or previous node history to generate node embeddings
and then aggregate node embeddings from both source and destination node of an edge to predict
its existence. In comparison, edge-based methods such as CAWN [46] and GraphMixer [9] aim
to directly generate embeddings for the edge of interest and then predict its existence. Lastly, the
simple memory-based heuristic EdgeBank [33] without any learning component has shown surprising
performance based on existing evaluation. We compare these methods on TGB datasets in Section 5.
For more discussion on TG methods see Appendix D.

3  Task Evaluation on Temporal Graphs

Temporal graphs are often used to model networks that evolve over time where nodes are entities and
temporal edges are relations between entities through time. In this work, we focus on continuous-time
temporal graphs and denote them as timestamped edge streams consisting of triplets of source, desti-
nation, and timestamp; i.e., G = {(s0, d0, t0), (s1, d1, t1), . . . , (sT , dT , tT )} where the timestamps
are ordered (0 ≤t1 ≤t2 ≤... ≤tT ) [33, 21]. Note that temporal graph edges can have different
properties namely being weighted, directed, or attributed. We consider Gt as the augmented graph of
all edges observed in the stream up to the time t with nodes as Vt and edges as Et. Optionally, Gt can
contain node features Xt ∈R|Vt|×kn where kn is the size of a node feature vector, and edge features
Mt ∈R|Et|×km where km is the size of an edge feature vector. We consider a fixed chronological
split to form the training, validation, and test set.

Evaluation Settings. There are several possible evaluation settings in the temporal graph based
on the available information of the test set. We categorize and discuss these settings in detail in
Appendix C. In this work, we consider the streaming setting where the deployed models need to
adapt to new information at inference time. More specifically, we follow the setting in [35] where
previously observed test edges can be accessed by the model but back-propagation and weight updates
with the test information are not permitted.


3.1  Dynamic Link Property Prediction

The goal of dynamic link property prediction is to predict the property (oftentimes the existence)
of a link between a node pair at a future timestamp. The timeline is chronologically split at two
fixed points resulting in three sets of edges Etrain, Eval., and Etest. In TGB, we improve the evaluation
setting in the following ways.

Negative edge sampling. In current evaluation [24, 48, 35, 45, 40, 51, 6, 53], only one negative
edge is sampled uniformly randomly from all possible node pairs to evaluate against each positive
edge. In contrast, in real applications where the true edges are not known in advance, the edges with
the highest probabilities predicted by a given model are used to decide which connections should
be prioritized. With that in mind, we treat the link prediction task as a ranking problem and sample
multiple negative edges per each positive edge. In particular, for a given positive edge ep : (s, d, t),
we fix the source node s and timestamp t, and sample q different destination nodes. For each dataset,
we select the number of negative edges q based on the trade-off between evaluation completeness and
the test set inference time.

We sample the negative edges from both the historical and random negative edges.  Historical
negatives are sampled from the set of edges that are observed in the training set but are not present at
the current timestamp t (i.e. Et \ Etrain), they are shown to be more difficult for models to predict


                                       4
