arXiv:2407.05161v2  [cs.SI]  13 Jun 2025
A Survey of Datasets and Tasks for Information Diffusion
Fuxia Guo, Xiaowen Wang, Yanwei Xie, Jingqiu Li, Zehao Wang, Lanjun Wang∗
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
wanglanjun@tju.edu.cn
Abstract
Information diffusion across various new media platforms grad-
ually influences the perceptions, decisions, and social behaviors
of individual users. In information communication studies, the fa-
mous Five W’s of Communication model (5W Model) has displayed
the process of information diffusion clearly. At present, although
plenty of studies and corresponding datasets have emerged on in-
formation diffusion, a systematic categorization of multiple tasks
and integration of datasets are still lacking. To address this gap, we
survey a systematic taxonomy of information diffusion tasks and
datasets based on the "5W Model" framework. We first categorize
the information diffusion tasks into ten subtasks with definitions,
dataset analyses, and representative methodologies, from three
main tasks of information diffusion prediction, social bot detection,
and misinformation detection. We also collect the dataset repos-
itory of information diffusion tasks with the available links and
compare them based on six attributes associated with users and
content: user information, social network, bot label, propagation
content, diffusion network, and veracity label. In addition, we dis-
cuss the limitations and future directions of current datasets and
research topics to advance the future development of information
diffusion. The dataset repository can be accessed on our website
https://github.com/fuxiaG/Information-Diffusion-Datasets.
Keywords
Dataset, Information diffusion, Social bot detection, Misinformation
detection, Review
ACM Reference Format:
Fuxia Guo, Xiaowen Wang, Yanwei Xie, Jingqiu Li, Zehao Wang, Lanjun
Wang. 2025. A Survey of Datasets and Tasks for Information Diffusion. In . ,
15 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
Introduction
Online information can be extensively diffused across cyberspace
as new media enable users to voice opinions, gather public insights,
and share engaging content, promoting information diffusion [1–3].
Information diffusion is critical for facilitating online interactions
∗Corresponding author: wanglanjun@tju.edu.cn.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference’17, Washington, DC, USA
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
and monitoring social networks [4]. Moreover, it can shape indi-
vidual perceptions, influence public opinion, and potentially lead
to economic losses [5].
Previous surveys [6–10] on information diffusion primarily fo-
cus on mechanisms, models, and influencing factors. For instance,
[6] categorizes diffusion models into explanatory and predictive
types, highlighting their complementarity, while [7] introduces a
taxonomy for classifying models across disciplines. Additionally,
[8] discusses vulnerabilities in diffusion models and their impact
on social networks, and [9] provides an overview of theoretical and
empirical studies, identifying challenges and future directions. A
more recent work [10] offers a comprehensive analysis, combining
model categorization with an evaluation of diffusion prediction
datasets. Surveys on specific aspects include [11], which investi-
gates retweet behavior, and [12], which categorizes methods for
predicting information popularity. In the domain of misinformation,
[13] reviews techniques for detecting fake news and rumors, while
[14] proposes a taxonomy for fake news detection.
Despite these contributions, the current review primarily focus
on information diffusion mechanisms from a computer science
perspective, failing to consider the practical diffusion situation
facing communication studies, diminishing its real-world signifi-
cance. Moreover, current studies just discuss single research task.
However, many tasks in the information diffusion field are seen
as scattered, but actually these issues share similar scenario and
are associated with inter-relations. The similar scenario is reflected
in the real-world data as a virtual public opinion scenario, but few
studies integrate these datasets, not to mention those for multiple
tasks. Therefore, there is still a lack of integrated consideration from
the perspective of communication studies in categorizing multiple
information diffusion tasks and comparing corresponding datasets
in different tasks.
To address this problem, this survey develops a systematic taxon-
omy for information diffusion tasks utilizing the "5W Model" frame-
work and compiles a set of publicly accessible datasets adapted to
each task. Firstly, the Five W’s of Communication[15], as a classical
communication pattern, elucidates the framework of the informa-
tion diffusion process. Within this model, we categorize informa-
tion diffusion tasks into social bot detection (users), misinformation
detection (content), and information diffusion prediction (paths,
receivers, and effects), aligning with the five "W"s. These primary
tasks interact with each other and are further subdivided into ten
subtasks as shown in Figure1. Secondly, from two entities of user
and content in the five "W"s, six common attributes are identified
in information diffusion data, presented in Table 1: user informa-
tion, bot label, and social network for the user, and propagation
content, veracity label, and diffusion network for content. Their
presence across renowned datasets is compared in Table 2. Thirdly,
we elaborate on each renowned subtask shown in Figure 1, define
