A Survey of Datasets and Tasks for Information Diffusion
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
𝐶(𝑡𝑤) = {(𝑢𝑖,𝑢𝑗,𝑡𝑗)}𝑖,𝑗≤𝐿, which means that there are 𝐿users
interacting with the initial post 𝑝by the observed time 𝑡𝑤. The
triple (𝑢𝑖,𝑢𝑗,𝑡𝑗) indicates that user 𝑢𝑗interacts with user 𝑢𝑖’s post
at timestamp𝑡𝑗. From the interaction relations between two users in
𝐶(𝑡𝑤), we can construct a diffusion network 𝐺𝐷(𝑡𝑤) = {𝑉𝑈, 𝐸𝐷1}
at time 𝑡𝑤. In particular, for user attitude prediction during rumor
propagation, user crowds can be categorized into three groups based
on classical epidemic models SI, SIS, and SIR [98]: ignorants (𝑋) who
are unaware of the rumor, spreaders (𝑌) who spread it, and stiflers
(𝑍) who know it but do not spread it. Stiflers can be further divided
into neutrality (𝑍0), belief (𝑍1), and disbelief (𝑍2) [31]. Predictions
using epidemic models require the group density of ignorants (𝑥(𝑡)),
spreaders (𝑦(𝑡)), and the three types of stiflers (𝑧0(𝑡), 𝑧1(𝑡), and
𝑧2(𝑡)) at time 𝑡. Thus, based on the symbol definitions above, we
can define cascade size prediction, popularity prediction, and user
attitude prediction as follows.
• Cascade size prediction: Given the cascade sequence 𝐶(𝑡𝑤) and
the diffusion network 𝐺𝐷(𝑡𝑤) = {𝑉𝑈, 𝐸𝐷1} of an initial post 𝑝
at observed timestamp 𝑡𝑤, cascade size prediction aims to predict
the size of the cascade |𝐶(𝑡𝑝)| at predicted timestamp 𝑡𝑝≫𝑡𝑤.
• Popularity prediction: Given the post set 𝑃with post content
and the user set 𝑈, popularity prediction aims to predict the
popularity 𝜔𝑖of a post 𝑝𝑖∈𝑃.
• User attitudes prediction: Given a rumor 𝑝, the density of its
ignorants 𝑥(𝑡0) and the density of its spreaders𝑦(𝑡0) at the initial
timestamp 𝑡0, user attitudes prediction aims to obtain the group
density 𝑧𝑖(𝑡𝑝) of stiflers 𝑧𝑖at predicted timestamp 𝑡𝑝.
3.1.2
Datasets analysis. The datasets of macroscopic information
diffusion prediction are compared in Table 2.
• The source platforms include social media platforms primarily,
academic citation websites in cascade size prediction, and review
sites of movies or merchants in popularity prediction. Social
media is the most common platform in information diffusion.
Academic citation datasets, focused on citation patterns, high-
light how information propagates in scholarly contexts, where
influence and relevance drive cascade sizes. Review sites reflect
user opinions and behavior trends, which are critical for un-
derstanding popularity but might lack the intricate interaction
details found in social media.
• The datasets in cascade size prediction all include the diffusion
network, while Twitter-FOREST and Douban datasets include
social network additionally. It helps capture the influence of user
relationships during propagation, potentially supplementing the
underlying user patterns not in diffusion networks.
• The multimodality in SMPD, Yelp and ICLP datasets includes texts
and images. Micro-Videos includes texts and videos. MicroLens
incorporates texts, images, and videos. This variety improves pre-
dictive performance by leveraging multiple types of information.
3.1.3
Methodology. To demonstrate the method of macroscopic
information diffusion prediction and the current performance mea-
sured by evaluation metrics, we will present a SOTA method for
each subtask that introduces its landmark algorithm, respectively.
Their performance are shown in Appendix A.
• Cascade size prediction: CasFlow[26] proposes a probabilistic
cascade size prediction model integrating hierarchical structures
and propagation uncertainty. The model first analyzes both local
and global diffusion patterns, then captures user interactions
over time with Bi-GRUs. Following this, the model encodes un-
certainty in propagation using Variational Autoencoders (VAEs)
and refines predictions with Normalizing Flows. Table 3 presents
its performance comparison between CasFlow and baseline mod-
els across three datasets (Twitter-casflow [26], APS [26], and Sina
Weibo [55]) with different observation times, measured by MSLE
and MAPE.
• Popularity prediction: RAGTrans[35] introduces a retrieval-augmented
model for predicting the popularity of multimodal social media
content. It retrieves relevant instances from a user-generated con-
tent (UGC) memory bank, builds a multimodal hypergraph, and
applies a bootstrapping transformer for neighborhood aggrega-
tion. After that, a user-aware fusion module combines multimodal
data with user characteristics. Table 4 presents its performance
comparison between RAGTrans and baseline models on three
datasets (SMPD [32], ICIP [60], and WeChat [35]), measured by
MSE, MAE and SRC.
• User attitudes prediction: Neutral state model[31] introduces
a neutral state model to represent the crowd attitudes during
rumor propagation by segmenting individuals into Ignorants,
Spreaders, Skeptics, and Stifflers with varying beliefs. The model
uses dynamic equations to simulate the flow of individuals and
incorporates parameters for rumor spread rate and the influence
of neutral discussions. Table 5 shows its simulated results of
neutral state model and XYWZ1Z2 model compared with the
actual data on the COVID-19-rumor [61] dataset measured by
MAE and MSE.
3.2
Microscopic information diffusion
prediction
Microscopic information diffusion prediction targets the future
diffusion result that a certain user will engage with certain content
at a predicted time. From the standpoint of this content, the study
of which user will engage with the target content is known as next
user prediction [25, 27, 28]. From the standpoint of this user, the
study of whether the content will be engaged by the target user
is known as social influence prediction [29, 30]. Therefore, there
are two subtasks of macroscopic information diffusion prediction,
involving next user prediction and social influence prediction.
Intuitively, a user is more likely to repost or comment on con-
tent from users they follow or who follow them, especially if they
share the same dynamic diffusion trace [28]. These relationships
and historical diffusion records are available in social and diffu-
sion networks. Thus, based on these networks, next user predic-
tion forecasts which user is likely to be the next to engage in a
cascade [25]. From a different perspective of a user, we wonder
whether the content will be engaged by this user. Social action in
activities are citations in academic sites, voting in news platforms,
and reposting or commenting on social media [30]. Research [29]
suggests that users’ emotions, decisions, and actions are influenced
primarily by their social network neighbors, without external dis-
turbances. Therefore, social influence prediction is necessary
to forecast changes in a user’s actions regarding certain content
