Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Guo et al.
Figure 2: The statistics of time horizon, language and modal-
ity of all datasets.
and LIAR use six categories, while others employ a binary sys-
tem: 𝑦𝑃∈{0, 1} for rumor (non-rumor or rumor) and fake news
(real or fake). These variations affect the granularity of detection
models.
5.3
Methodology.
The representative SOTA methods for the subtasks of misinforma-
tion detection are introduced in this paragraph respectively. They
briefly introduce the landmark algorithms and current performance
in this task.
• Rumor detection: Graph-aware Multi-feature Interacting Network
(GMIN) [23] detects rumors on social media by integrating text,
user interactions, and propagation. It includes a Text-based Rea-
soning module that uses BERT and CNN-BiGRU for feature ex-
traction, a Graph-aware Interaction module that constructs a
user-text graph with GAT, a Propagation Structure module that
applies GCN on diffusion graphs, and a Feature Collaboration
module that fuses features via co-attention for early detection
and interpretability. Table 10 presents the performance com-
parison between GMIN and baseline models on three datasets
(Ma-Weibo [77], Twitter15 [78] and Twitter16 [78]), measured by
precision, recall, F1-score, and accuracy.
• Fake news detection: Adaptive Rationale Guidance (ARG) net-
work [24] employs Large and Small Language Models for fake
news detection. It inputs news and rationales from an LLM, en-
codes them with BERT, and uses cross-attention to integrate
rationales for classification, outperforming LLM-only and SLM-
only methods. Table 11 presents the performance comparison
between ARG and baseline models on two datasets (Weibo21 [91]
and GossipCop of FakeNewsNet [47]), measured by accuracy, F1-
score and macro F1.
6
Discussion
6.1
Limitations on datasets
Currently, there is a lack of comprehensive datasets that encompass
all six attributes, preventing simultaneous exploration of the three
main tasks of information diffusion prediction. Furthermore, data
analysis reveals that the time range covered by existing datasets is
relatively outdated and that the data is limited in terms of language,
modality, and source platform.
• Current datasets are incomplete due to the absence of user or
content data. We identified six attributes for datasets in Sec-
tion 2.2. However, no dataset in Table 2 includes all six attributes
although they often coexist in real scenarios. Therefore, creating
datasets with comprehensive attributes is essential for accurately
modeling propagation processes.
• Time-recorded datasets after 2020 are scarce, with those before
2016 comprising over half of the total and those from 2016 to 2020
making up the largest portion, as shown in Figure 2. Information
diffusion patterns from five to ten years ago may not apply today,
making it crucial to acquire data from the last five years.
• This study acknowledges potential biases in various datasets.
Nearly 80% of current datasets focus on English-speaking plat-
forms, leading to under-representation of non-English speakers,
which can distort conclusions. Future work should prioritize col-
lecting diverse datasets across different languages and regions.
• Most propagation content in the datasets is text, with only eight
multimodal datasets available. Accurate results require diverse
content types, such as images and videos.
• Most datasets are collected from a single platform, primarily
Twitter. However, users engage across multiple platforms, and
information diffusion patterns vary. Future research can collect
data on the same users or events across multiple platforms for a
more comprehensive understanding.
• Advances in generative AI allow for the creation of synthetic
datasets simulating information diffusion processes. These tech-
nologies can generate users with varied attributes and set up
different scenarios, including bot interference and AI-generated
misinformation. These datasets will enable a deeper exploration
of information diffusion complexities in the era of large language
models.
6.2
Limitations on research topics
Limitations and opportunities for future research topics are as
follows.
• In addition to the prediction of popularity and user attitudes, the
prediction of information diffusion is often based solely on cas-
cade data, overlooking content-based information. Future work
can incorporate the content, focusing on semantic and emotional
attributes to enhance predictions of paths and effects.
• Current research on social bot detection focuses on identifying a
single bot, while group bot detection methods is more crucial.
• Regarding misinformation detection, rumor detection generally
overlooks early rumor detection for emerging events, and fake
news detection lacks sufficient attention to the impact of temporal
changes, user information, and social network, which can be
focused more in the future.
• Existing studies [105–107] typically study on a single platform or
several independent platforms without links between different
platforms, such as the same user, the same topic of content, etc.
Future research is expected to consider cross-platform analysis
to better explore the diffusion of the same user or event across
different media.
7
Conclusion
In this survey, we categorize information diffusion tasks into three
main categories based on the "5W Model" framework: information
diffusion prediction, social bot detection, and misinformation detec-
tion. We review datasets within the information diffusion domain
and assess them against six key attributes: user information, social
