Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Guo et al.
their research object, review their sixty-five datasets summarized
in Table 2, offer their SOTA methods to know the experimental
procedure, and provide the URLs of datasets in Table 12 in Ap-
pendix B. Finally, after collecting and analyzing the datasets, we
discuss the limitations and propose future research directions in
current datasets and information diffusion tasks. Therefore, the
contributions of our study can be summarized as follows.
• We categorize the research tasks in the information diffusion
process into three main tasks (social bot detection, misinforma-
tion detection and information diffusion prediction) from the
three perspectives of the spreader, the content and the combina-
tion of paths, receivers and effects proposed in the Five W’s of
Communication.
• We further subdivide three main tasks into ten subtasks and com-
pare sixty-five datasets utilizing in these tasks based on six key
attributes (user information, social network, bot labels, propaga-
tion content, diffusion network, and veracity labels).
• We identify gaps in current information diffusion datasets and
research, proposing directions for improvement. Mainly, compre-
hensive datasets covering all six attributes are scarce, limiting
the simultaneous study of the three main tasks. Existing datasets
also lack diversity in language, modality, and source platforms,
and many are outdated.
2
Taxonomy
2.1
Taxonomy of information diffusion tasks
In 1948, Harold Lasswell, an American political scientist and com-
munication theorist, described an act of communication in [15] by
answering the following five questions:
Who? Says What? In Which Channel? To Whom?
With What Effect?
This description is known as Laswell’s Model of Communication
or Five W’s of Communication (abbr. 5W Model) due to the five
words that begin with the letter𝑊which respectively demonstrate
five elements during the process of communication: communicator,
message, medium, audience and effect. In other words, it also rep-
resents five elements in the diffusion process: user, content, path,
receiver, and effect.
2.1.1
Task description. In computer science, research addresses
various issues based on the five elements. Standing up for the user,
it identifies whether the user is normal or a bot [16–20]. For the con-
tent, it determines whether the information is true or false [14, 21–
24]. For the path, it predicts the number of receivers a dissemination
path can reach [1, 25, 26]. For the receiver, it identifies the next
recipient of the message [27–30]. It also explores the influence on
the receiver [31] and examines the popularity level of the informa-
tion [32–35].
This paper, following the "5W model" framework, categorizes
these issues into three types: social bot detection (users), misinfor-
mation detection (content), and information diffusion prediction
(paths, receivers, and effects). Information diffusion prediction
(Sec. 3) predicts future diffusion receivers, paths, and effects, such as
user attitudes, the next user in a cascade, and post popularity. Social
Figure 1: Categorization of information diffusion tasks under
the "5W Model" framework includes information diffusion
prediction, social bot detection and misinformation detec-
tion, along with their respective subtasks and interrelation-
ships.
bot detection (Sec. 4) classifies users as bots or humans. Misinfor-
mation detection (Sec. 5) identifies content as misinformation or
real information.
2.1.2
Relationship between tasks. These three main tasks are also
interrelated. Some studies [36–53] explore these tasks from overlap-
ping perspectives. The relationships and cross-studies are illustrated
in Figure 1.
• From social bot detection to information diffusion prediction,
there are studies [36] analyzing the diffusion ability and charac-
teristics of social bots and exploring information diffusion mech-
anisms between bots users and human users, and studies [37–39]
assessing the manipulative influence of bots on public opinion.
• From misinformation detection to information diffusion predic-
tion, [40] analyzes the diffusion characteristics of misinformation,
and [41] models the process of misinformation diffusion with
agents.
• From information diffusion prediction to misinformation detec-
tion, [54] accurately predicts the cascade tendency at early stage
to assist social platforms in preventing the spread of fake news.
Misinformation mitigation and containment research leverage
diffusion models such as the independent cascade model [42, 43]
and multi-cascade diffusion [53] which are based on the previous
diffusion research on misinformation.
• From social bot detection to misinformation detection, many
studies [44–50] have shown that social bots contribute to the
generation and propagation of misinformation. Further, [51] con-
ducts early rumor detection by exploring the behavior of social
bots, and [52] uses adversarial attacks to improve the robustness
of fake news detectors by simulating the behavior of bots.
2.2
Taxonomy of information diffusion data
attributes
According to the "5W model," information diffusion data involves
three entities: user, content, and media. Media, as the data source, en-
compasses platforms like websites, social media, and video-sharing
services, as detailed in Table 2. The attributes necessary for clas-
sification stem from two aspects that measure the content within
the data. In practice, information diffusion is driven by user en-
gagement, including comments, reposts, clicks, and likes. Unlike
