Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
JODIE. The model with code provided here is adapted into our evaluation pipeline. JODIE calculates
the L2 distances between the predicted item embedding to other items and uses the rankings to evaluate
their performance. Here, we consider the negative distances as the prediction score. Based on the
prediction score, we calculate mAP and AUC. We split the data according to the setting in section
5.1. The model is trained for 50 epoches. The dimensions of the dynamic embedding is searched
in{64, 128} and the best performance is reported.
DyRep. The model with code provided here is adapted into our evaluation pipeline. We follow
most of the settings in the paper. That is, we set the number of samples for survival to 5, gradient
clipping to 100. And we tune the hidden unit size and embedding size in {32, 64} to report the best
performance. The model uses likelihood based on point process to predict links and therefore we use
these likelihood scores to compute AUC and AP.
VGRNN. The model with code provided here is adapted into our evaluation pipeline. We use several
of its default settings: one-hot node features as input when node attributes are unavailable as suggested
by the original paper (Hajiramezanali et al., 2019), one layer of GRU network as the history tracking
backbone, a learning rate of 1e-2, and training for 1000 epochs. Its hidden dimension is searched in
{32, 64} and the best performance is reported.
EvolveGCN. The model with code provided here is adapted into our evaluation pipeline. We
utilize EvolveGCN-O version since it can capture more graph structural information. For most
hyperparameters, we follow the default values. According to our setting, we sample an equal amount
of negative links, which means we set negative_mult_training and negative_mult_test to 1. One
central hyperparameter needs to be further tuned is number of previous snapshots used for training
and testing. We search its optimal value in {3, 4, 6, 8, 10} when tuning the model for most datasets.
Since Enron only contains 11 snapshots, we search its optimal value in {3,4,5,6}.
TGAT. The model with code provided here is adapted into our evaluation pipeline. We use several
of their default settings. That is, we use product attention, set the number of attention heads to 2, set
the number of graph attention layers to 2, and use 100 as their default hidden dimension. One central
hyperparameter that needs to be further tuned is the degree of their neighbor sampling. We search its
optimal value in {10, 20, 30} when tuning the model.
C.3
EVALUATION OF SNAPSHOT-BASED BASELINES
Reddit
Wikipedia
MOOC
Social Evo.
Enron
UCI
total snapshots
174
20
20
27
11
88
exact split
122 / 26 / 26
14 / 3 / 3
14 / 3 / 3
19 / 4 / 4
7 / 2 / 2
62 / 13 / 13
referenced baseline
EvolveGCN
-
-
VGRNN
VGRNN
EvolveGCN
Table 5: Snapshot split for evaluating snapshot-based baselines.
We make the following decisions to evaluate snapshot-based baselines in a fair manner, so that their
performances are comparable to those derived from the stream-based evaluation procedure. The
ﬁrst step we do is to evenly split the whole dataset chronologically into a number of snapshots. We
determine the exact number of snapshots by referring the three snapshot-based baselines we use. For
Wikipedia and MOOC dataset which are not used by any snapshot-based baseline, we split them into
a total of 20 snapshots. Next, we need to determine the proportions of these snapshots assigned each
to training, validation, and testing set. In doing this, our principle is that the proportions of these three
sets should be close to 70:15:15 as much as possible, since that ratio is what we use for evaluating
stream-based baselines and our proposed method. These decisions lead to our ﬁnal splitting scheme
summarized in Tab. 5.
Extra care should also be taken when testing snapshot-based methods. For a queried link in a snapshot,
usually snapshot-based methods only make a binary prediction whether or not that link may exist
at any time in that snapshot. They do not, however, take care of the case that the link may appear
multiple times at different time points within that snapshot’s time range. This lead to a different
evaluation scheme than stream-based methods, which do consider the multiplicity of links. Therefore,
18
