Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Figure 8: Visualizing most discriminatory CAWs, and their occurrence ratios with positive / negative samples.
also observed by the recent work to model social interacting behaviors (Wang et al., 2020), although
temporal convolutional networks may alleviate this issue to some extent. That said, snapshot-based
methods usually has the advantage that they usually consume less memory and computation time.
Stream-based methods on the other hand need to manage how they sample history very carefully to
balance the efﬁciency and effectiveness. Our proposed algorithm on CAW sampling comes into the
place in light of this to solve the problem.
E
VISUALIZING CAWS AND AWS
Here, we introduce one way to visualize and interpret CAWs. Our interpretation can also illustrate
the importance to capture the correlation between walks to represent the dynamics of temporal
networks, where the set-based anonymization of CAWs can work while AWs will fail. The basic idea
of our intrepretation is to identify different shapes of CAWs via their patterns encoded in ICAW , and
compare their contributions to the link-prediction conﬁdence. The idea will be also used to interpret
AWs so that we can compare CAWs with AWs.
First, we deﬁne the shapes of walks based on ICAW . Recall from Eq. 3 that g(w, Su) encodes the
number of times node w that appears in different walk positions w.r.t source node u. This encoding
induces a temporal shortest-path distance duw between node w and u: duw ≜min{i|g(w, Su)[i] >
0}. Note that in temporal networks, there is not a canonical way to deﬁne shortest-path distance
between two nodes as there is no static structures. So our deﬁnition duw can be viewed the shortest-
path distance between u and w over the subgraph that consists of walks in Su. Based on the way to
deﬁne (duw, dvw), we introduce the mapping from ICAW of the node w to a coordinate of this node in
the subgraph that consists of walks in Su ∩Sv: (g(w, Su), g(w, Sv)) −→coor(w; u, v) = (duw, dvw).
This cooredinate can be viewed as a relative coordinate of node w w.r.t. the source nodes u, v. Each
walk W ∈Su ∪Sv can then represented as a sequence of such coordinates by mapping each node’s
ICAW to a coordinate. The obtained sequence can be viewed as a shape of W and we denote the
obtained shape as sCAW (W). For instance, in the toy example shown by Fig. 2 right, the ﬁrst CAW in
Su, u −→b −→a −→c is mapped to a new coordinate sequence (0, 2) −→(1, 2) −→(2, ∞) −→(3, ∞).
The ∞marks the setting that node a, c do not appear in Sv.
Next, we score the contributions of CAWs with different shapes. We use CAW-N-Mean as enc(Su ∪
Sv) is simply mean over the encodings of sampled CAWs and further use linear projrepresented as a
sequence of such coordinates by mapping each node’section βT enc(Su ∪Sv) to compute the ﬁnal
scalar logit for prediction. As the two operations mean and projection are commutative, the above
setting allows each CAW ˆWi contributing a scalar score logit( ˆWi) = βT enc( ˆWi) to the ﬁnal logit.
Fig. 8 lists the 3 highest-scored and the 3 lowest-scored shapes of CAW, which are extracted
from the Wikipedia dataset with M = 32 and m = 3. A law of general motif closure can be
observed from the highest-scored CAWs: two nodes that commonly appear in some types of motif
are more inclined to have a link in between. For example, the highest-scored shape of CAW,
(0, ∞) →(1, 2) →(2, 3) →(1, 2), implies that the nodes except the ﬁrst in this CAW appear in
the sampled common 3-hop neighborhood around the two nodes between which the link is to be
20
