Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
INDUCTIVE REPRESENTATION LEARNING IN TEMPO-
RAL NETWORKS VIA CAUSAL ANONYMOUS WALKS
Yanbang Wang1∗, Yen-Yu Chang2, Yunyu Liu3, Jure Leskovec1, Pan Li1,3
1Department of Computer Science, 2Electrical Engineering, Stanford University
3Department of Computer Science, Purdue University
{ywangdr,jure}@cs.stanford.edu,yenyu@stanford.edu
{liu3154,panli}@purdue.edu
ABSTRACT
Temporal networks serve as abstractions of many real-world dynamic systems.
These networks typically evolve according to certain laws, such as the law of triadic
closure, which is universal in social networks. Inductive representation learning
of temporal networks should be able to capture such laws and further be applied
to systems that follow the same laws but have not been unseen during the training
stage. Previous works in this area depend on either network node identities or rich
edge attributes and typically fail to extract these laws. Here, we propose Causal
Anonymous Walks (CAWs) to inductively represent a temporal network. CAWs are
extracted by temporal random walks and work as automatic retrieval of temporal
network motifs to represent network dynamics while avoiding the time-consuming
selection and counting of those motifs. CAWs adopt a novel anonymization strategy
that replaces node identities with the hitting counts of the nodes based on a set
of sampled walks to keep the method inductive, and simultaneously establish the
correlation between motifs. We further propose a neural-network model CAW-N to
encode CAWs, and pair it with a CAW sampling strategy with constant memory and
time cost to support online training and inference. CAW-N is evaluated to predict
links over 6 real temporal networks and outperforms previous SOTA methods in
the inductive setting. CAW-N also outperforms previous methods in 4 out of the 6
networks in the transductive setting.
1
INTRODUCTION
Temporal networks consider dynamically interacting elements as nodes, interactions as temporal
links, with labels of when those interactions happen. Such temporal networks provide abstractions to
study many real-world dynamic systems (Holme & Saramäki, 2012). Researchers have investigated
temporal networks in recent several decades and concluded many insightful laws that essentially reﬂect
how these real-world systems evolve over time (Kovanen et al., 2011; Benson et al., 2016; Paranjape
et al., 2017; Zitnik et al., 2019). For example, the law of triadic closure in social networks, describing
that two nodes with common neighbors tend to have a mutual interaction later, reﬂects how people
establish social connections (Simmel, 1950). Later, a more elaborate law on the correlation between
the interaction frequency between two individuals and the degree that they share social connections,
further got demonstrated (Granovetter, 1973; Toivonen et al., 2007). Feedforward control loops that
consist of a direct interaction (from node w to node u) and an indirect interaction (from w through
another node v to u), also work as a law in the modulation of gene regulatory systems (Mangan &
Alon, 2003) and also as the control principles of many engineering systems (Gorochowski et al., 2018).
Although research on temporal networks has achieved the above success, it can hardly be generalized
to study more complicated laws: Researchers have to investigate an exponentially increasing number
of patterns when incorporating more interacting elements let alone their time-evolving aspects.
Recently, representation learning, via learning vector representations of data based on neural net-
works, has offered unprecedented possibilities to extract, albeit implicitly, more complex structural
patterns (Hamilton et al., 2017b; Battaglia et al., 2018). However, as opposed to the study on static
networks, representation learning of temporal networks is far from mature. Two challenges on
∗Project website with code and data: http://snap.stanford.edu/caw/. Updated 10/30/2022: we
ﬁxed a bug in previous versions. See Appendix G for details.
1
arXiv:2101.05974v5  [cs.LG]  31 Oct 2022
