Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
5
EXPERIMENTS
5.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
CAW-N Variants. We test CAW-N-mean and CAW-N-attn which uses mean and attention pooling
respectively to encode Su ∪Sv (Sec. 4.3). Their code is provided in the supplement.
Baselines. Our method is compared with six previous state-of-the-art baselines on representation
learning of temporal networks. They can be grouped into two categories based on their input data
structure: (1) Snapshot-based methods, including DynAERNN (Goyal et al., 2020), VGRNN (Haji-
ramezanali et al., 2019) and EvolveGCN (Pareja et al., 2020); (2) Stream-based methods, including
TGAT (Xu et al., 2020), JODIE (Kumar et al., 2019) and DyRep (Trivedi et al., 2019). We give
their detailed introduction in Appendix C.2.2. For the snapshot-based methods, we view the link
aggregation as a way to preprocess historical links. We adopt the aggregation ways suggested in their
papers. These models are trained and evaluated over the same link sets as the stream-based methods.
Dataset. We use six real-world public datasets: Wikipedia is a network between wiki pages and
human editors. Reddit is a network between posts and users on subreddits. MOOC is a network
of students and online course content units. Social Evolution is a network recording the physical
proximity between students. Enron is a email communication network. UCI is a network between
online posts made by students. We summarize their statistics in Tab.1 and give their detailed
description and access in Appendix C.1.
Evaluation Tasks. Two types of tasks are for evaluation: transductive and inductive link prediction.
Transductive link prediction task allows temporal links between all nodes to be observed up to a
time point during the training phase, and uses all the remaining links after that time point for testing.
In our implementation, we split the total time range [0, T] into three intervals: [0, Ttrain), [Ttrain,
Tval), [Tval, T]. links occurring within each interval are dedicated to training, validation, and testing
set, respectively. For all datasets, we ﬁx Ttrain/T=0.7, and Tval/T=0.85 .
Inductive link prediction task predicts links associated with nodes that are not observed in the training
set. There are two types of such links: 1) "old vs. new" links, which are links between an observed
node and an unobserved node; 2) "new vs. new" links, which are links between two unobserved
nodes. Since these two types of links suggest different types of inductiveness, we distinguish them by
reporting their performance metrics separately. In practice, we follow two steps to split the data: 1)
we use the same setting of the transductive task to ﬁrst split the links chronologically into training /
validation / testing sets; 2) we randomly select 10% nodes, remove any links associated with them
from the training set, and remove any links not associated with them in the validation and testing sets.
Following most baselines, we randomly sample an equal amount of negative links and consider
link prediction as a binary classiﬁcation problem. For fair comparison, we use the same evaluation
procedures for all baselines, including the snapshot-based methods.
Training conﬁguration. We use binary cross entropy loss and Adam optimizer to train all the
models, and early stopping strategy to select the best epoch to stop training. For hyperparameters, we
primarily tune those that control the CAW sampling scheme including the number M, the length m
of CAWs and the time decay α. We will investigate their sensitivity in Sec.5.3. For all baselines, we
adapt their implemented models into our evaluation pipeline and extensively tune them. Detailed
description of all models’ tuning can be found in Appendix C. Finally, we adopt two metrics to
evaluate the models’ performance: Area Under the ROC curve (AUC) and Average Precision (AP).
5.2
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
We report AUC scores in Tab.2, and report AP scores in Tab.6 of Appendix D.1. In the inductive
setting and especially with "new vs new" links, our models signiﬁcantly outperform all baselines
on all datasets. Even in transductive setting where the baselines claim their primary contribution,
our approaches still signiﬁcantly outperform them on four out of six datasets. Note that our models
achieve almost perfect scores (i.e. > 0.98) on Reddit and Wikpedia when the baselines are far from
perfect. Meanwhile, the strongest baseline on these two attributed datasets, TGAT (Xu et al., 2020),
suffers a lot on all the other datasets where informative node / link attributes become unavailable.
Comparing the two training settings, we observe that the performance of four baselines (JODIE,
VGRNN, DynAERNN,DyRep) drop signiﬁcantly when transiting from the transductive setting to the
inductive one, as they mostly record node identities either explicitly (JODIE, VGRNN, DynAERNN)
or implicitly (DyRep). TGAT and EvolveGCN do not use node identities and thus their performance
7
