Comprehensive Evaluating Protocols. DyGLib supports both transductive/inductive dynamic link
prediction and dynamic node classification tasks. Most previous works evaluate their methods on the
dynamic link prediction task with the random negative sampling strategy but a few models already
reach saturation performance under such a strategy, making it hard to distinguish more advanced
designs. For more reliable comparisons, we adopt three strategies (i.e., random, historical, and
inductive negative sampling strategies) in [44] to comprehensively evaluate the model performance.


5  Experiments

In this section, we report the results of various approaches by using DyGLib. We show the superiority
of DyGFormer over existing methods and also give an in-depth analysis of DyGFormer.


5.1  Experimental Settings

Datasets and Baselines. We experiment with thirteen datasets (Wikipedia, Reddit, MOOC, LastFM,
Enron, Social Evo., UCI, Flights, Can. Parl., US Legis., UN Trade, UN Vote, and Contact), which are
collected by [44] and cover diverse domains. Details of the datasets are shown in Section B.1. We
compare DyGFormer with eight popular continuous-time dynamic graph learning baselines that are
based on graph convolutions, memory networks, random walks, and sequential models, including
JODIE [28], DyRep [55], TGAT [64], TGN [45], CAWN [60], EdgeBank [44], TCL [57], and
GraphMixer [12]. We give the descriptions of baselines in Section B.2.

Evaluation Tasks and Metrics. We follow [64, 45, 60, 44] to evaluate models for dynamic link
prediction, which predicts the probability of a link occurring between two given nodes at a specific
time. This task has two settings: the transductive setting aims to predict future links between nodes
that are observed during training, and the inductive setting predicts future links between unseen
nodes. We use a multi-layer perceptron to take the concatenated representations of two nodes as
inputs and return the probability of a link as the output. Average Precision (AP) and Area Under the
Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUC-ROC) are adopted as the evaluation metrics. We adopt
random (rnd), historical (hist), and inductive (ind) negative sampling strategies in [44] for evaluation,
where the latter two strategies are more challenging. Please refer to [44] for more details. We also
follow [64, 45] to conduct dynamic node classification, which estimates the state of a node in a given
interaction at a specific time. A multi-layer perceptron is employed to map the node representations
to the labels. We use AUC-ROC as the evaluation metric due to the label imbalance. For both tasks,
we chronologically split each dataset with the ratio of 70%/15%/15% for training/validation/testing.

Model Configurations. For baselines, in addition to following their official settings, we also perform
an exhaustive grid search to find the optimal configurations of some critical hyperparameters for
more reliable comparisons. As DyGFormer can access longer histories, we vary each node’s input
sequence length from 32 to 4096 by a factor of 2. To keep the computational complexity at a constant
level that is irrelevant to the input length, we correspondingly increase the patch size from 1 to 128.
Please see Section B.5 for the detailed configurations of different models.

Implementation Details. For both tasks, we optimize all models (i.e., excluding EdgeBank which has
no trainable parameters) by Adam [27] and use supervised binary cross-entropy loss as the objective
function. We train the models for 100 epochs and use the early stopping strategy with a patience of
20. We select the model that achieves the best performance on the validation set for testing. We set
the learning rate and batch size to 0.0001 and 200 for all the methods on all the datasets. We run the
methods five times with seeds from 0 to 4 and report the average performance to eliminate deviations.
Experiments are conducted on an Ubuntu machine equipped with one Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6130
CPU @ 2.10GHz with 16 physical cores. The GPU device is NVIDIA Tesla T4 with 15 GB memory.


5.2  Performance Comparisons and Discussions

We report the performance of different methods on the AP metric for transductive dynamic link
prediction with three negative sampling strategies in Table 1. The best and second-best results are
emphasized by bold and underlined fonts. Note that the results are multiplied by 100 for a better
display layout. Please refer to Section C.1 and Section C.2 for the results of AP for inductive dynamic
link prediction as well as AUC-ROC for transductive and inductive dynamic link prediction tasks.


                                       6
