longer histories (see Figure 2 and Table 9 in Section B.5), DyGFormer is significantly better than
baselines on these two datasets. When CNRs of TP and TN are less distinguishable in the datasets,
DyGFormer may perform worse (only 2 out of 13 datasets show this property). For US Legis., the
CNRs between TP and TN are close (i.e., 75.18% vs. 53.98%), making DyGFormer worse than
memory-based baselines (i.e., JODIE, DyRep, and TGN). For UN Vote, its CNR of TP is even lower
than that of TN (i.e., 56.24% vs. 76.02%), which is opposite to our motivation, leading to poor results
of DyGFormer than a few baselines. Since these two datasets cannot obviously gain from longer
sequences either (see Table 9 in Section B.5), DyGFormer obtains worse results on them. Thus, we
conclude that for datasets with much higher CNR of TP than CNR of TN or datasets that can benefit
from longer histories, DyGFormer is a good choice. Otherwise, we may need to try other methods.


5.7 Why do DyGFormer’s Performance Vary across Different Negative Sampling Strategies?

Compared with the random (rnd) strategy, historical (hist) and inductive (ind) strategies will sample
previous links as negative ones. This makes previous positive links negative, which may hurt the
performance DyGFormer since the motivation of our neighbor co-occurrence encoding scheme is
violated. As positive links are identical among rnd, hist, and ind, we compute LR and the average
CNR of links in FP and show results in Table 5.

We find when hist or ind causes several magnitudes higher CNR of FP than rnd in the datasets,
DyGFormer drops sharply. For Wikipedia, UCI, and Flights, the CNRs of FP with hist/ind are much
higher than rnd (e.g., 14.00%/11.66% vs. 0.02% on Wikipedia). This misleads DyGFormer to predict
negative links as positive and causes drops (e.g., 89.28%/94.53% of negative links are incorrectly
predicted with hist/ind on Wikipedia, while only 2.81% are wrong with rnd). We also note the
drops in UCI are milder since the changes in CNR caused by hist or ind vs. rnd are less obvious
than changes in Wikipedia and Flights. When changes in CNR of FP caused by hist or ind are not
obvious in the datasets, DyGFormer is less affected. Since hist/ind makes little changes in CNRs
of FP on US Legis., we find it ranks second with hist/ind, which may indicate DyGFormer is less
influenced by the neighbor co-occurrence encoding scheme and generalizes well to various negative
sampling strategies. For UN Vote, although its CNRs of FP are not affected by hist and ind either,
DyGFormer still performs worse due to its inferior performance with rnd. Hence, we deduce that our
neighbor co-occurrence encoding may be sometimes fragile to various negative sampling strategies if
its motivation is violated, leading to the varying performance of DyGFormer.


5.8  Ablation Study

Finally, we validate the effectiveness of the neighbor co-occurrence encoding, time encoding, and
mixing of the sequence of source node and destination node in DyGFormer. From Figure 4 in Section
C.6, we observe that DyGFormer obtains the best performance when using all the components, and
the results would be worse when any component is removed. This illustrates the necessity of each
design in DyGFormer. Please refer to Section C.6 for detailed implementations and discussions.

6  Conclusion

In this paper, we proposed a new Transformer-based architecture (DyGFormer) and a unified library
(DyGLib) to foster the development of dynamic graph learning. DyGFormer differs from previous
methods in (i) a neighbor co-occurrence encoding scheme to exploit the correlations of nodes in each
interaction; and (ii) a patching technique to help the model capture long-term temporal dependencies.
DyGLib served as a toolkit for reproducible, scalable, and credible continuous-time dynamic graph
learning with standard training pipelines, extensible coding interfaces, and comprehensive evaluating
protocols. We hope our work can provide new perspectives on designing new dynamic graph learning
frameworks and encourage more researchers to dive into this field. In the future, we will continue to
enrich DyGLib by incorporating the recently released datasets and state-of-the-art models.

Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 62272023 and
51991395) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. YWF-23-L-1203).


                                       10
