due to the usage of recurrent neural networks [40, 57]. Therefore, we conclude that previous methods
lack the ability to capture either nodes’ correlations or long-term temporal dependencies.

Secondly, the training pipelines of different methods are inconsistent and often lead to poor re-
producibility. Also, existing methods are implemented by diverse frameworks (e.g., Pytorch [41],
Tensorflow [1], DGL [58], PyG [16], C++), making it time-consuming and difficult for researchers to
quickly understand the algorithms and further dive into the core of dynamic graph learning. Although
there exist some libraries for dynamic graph learning [18, 46, 74], they mainly focus on dynamic net-
work embedding methods [18], discrete-time graph learning methods [46], or engineering techniques
for training on large-scale dynamic graphs [74] (elaborated in Section 2). Currently, we find that
there are still no standard tools for continuous-time dynamic graph learning.

In this paper, we aim to address the above drawbacks with two key technical contributions.

We propose a new Transformer-based dynamic graph learning architecture (DyGFormer).
DyGFormer is conceptually simple by solely learning from the sequences of nodes’ historical first-
hop interactions. To be specific, DyGFormer is designed with a neighbor co-occurrence encoding
scheme, which encodes the appearing frequencies of each neighbor in the sequences of the source
and destination nodes to explicitly explore their correlations. In order to capture long-term temporal
dependencies, DyGFormer splits each node’s sequence into multiple patches and feeds them to
Transformer [56]. This patching technique not only makes the model effectively benefit from longer
histories via preserving local temporal proximities, but also efficiently reduces the computational
complexity to a constant level that is irrelevant to the input sequence length.

We present a unified continuous-time dynamic graph learning library (DyGLib). DyGLib is an
open-source toolkit with standard training pipelines, extensible coding interfaces, and comprehensive
evaluating strategies, aiming to foster standard, scalable, and reproducible dynamic graph learning
research. DyGLib has integrated a variety of continuous-time dynamic graph learning methods as
well as benchmark datasets from various domains. It trains all the methods via the same pipeline to
eliminate the influence of different implementations and adopts a modularized design for developers to
conveniently incorporate new datasets and algorithms based on their specific requirements. Moreover,
DyGLib supports both dynamic link prediction and dynamic node classification tasks with exhaustive
evaluating strategies to provide comprehensive comparisons of existing methods.

To evaluate the model performance, we conduct extensive experiments based on DyGLib, including
dynamic link prediction under transductive and inductive settings with three negative sampling
strategies as well as dynamic node classification. From the results, we observe that: (i) DyGFormer
outperforms existing methods on most datasets, demonstrating its superiority in capturing nodes’
correlations and long-term temporal dependencies; (ii) some findings of baselines are not in line
with previous reports because of their varied pipelines and problematic implementations, which
illustrates the necessity of introducing DyGLib. We also provide an in-depth analysis of the neighbor
co-occurrence encoding and patching technique for a better understanding of DyGFormer.


2  Related Work


Dynamic Graph Learning. Representation learning on dynamic graphs has been widely studied in
recent years [26, 49, 65]. Discrete-time methods manually divide the dynamic graph into a sequence
of snapshots and apply static graph learning methods on each snapshot, which ignore the temporal
order of nodes in each snapshot [39, 17, 48, 11, 66]. In contrast, continuous-time methods directly
learn on the whole dynamic graph with temporal graph neural networks [55, 64, 45, 36, 9, 59],
memory networks [28, 55, 45, 36, 59, 35], temporal random walks [60, 25] or sequential models
[57, 12]. Although insightful, most existing dynamic graph learning methods neglect the correlations
between two nodes in an interaction. They also fail to handle nodes with longer interactions due
to unaffordable computational costs of complex modules or issues in optimizing models (e.g., the
vanishing/exploding gradients). In this paper, we propose a new Transformer-based architecture to
show the necessity of capturing nodes’ correlations and long-term temporal dependencies, which is
achieved by two designs: a neighbor co-occurrence encoding scheme and a patching technique.

Transformer-based Applications in Various Fields. Transformer [56] is an innovative model that
employs the self-attention mechanism to handle sequential data, which has been successfully applied
in a variety of domains, such as natural language processing [13, 33, 6], computer vision [7, 14, 34]


                                       2
