PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research



                          ROC-AUC approach does not consider the baseline in the Twitter population. This is a general
                                  problem with classifiers if the structure of the population in which the classifier should be later
                                    used is ignored. In the case of bots, we want to clearly identify bots and make statements about
                                        the number of bots in a data set. This becomes even clearer when the main goal as well as the
                                  wording in bot studies is considered. Researchers are interested in the number of bots and not
                                    mainly in the number of human users. Therefore, even a small false-positive rate (FPR) has a
                                           large impact on the results. The data used to test (as in our case) and train Botometer is often
                               more balanced than the rather imbalanced general Twitter population. Saito and Rehmsmeier
                                        [33] advocate in such cases to evaluate the performance of a classifier based on the Precision-
                                         Recall (PR) curves as they “allow for an accurate and intuitive interpretation of practical classi-
                                                 fier performance”. While the so-called Matthews correlation coefficient is better than the F1
                                        score if researchers use only one specific threshold, PR curves are recommended [34, 35] if dif-
                                          ferent threshold levels exist as in the case with Botometer. To simulate a population that repre-
                                         sents the same assumed real ratio of the general Twitter population with 15% bots [4] and 85%
                                       non-bots, we resampled the different data sets for RQ2.


                           Results

                              Our analysis (see Fig 2 and Table 2) shows that the ROC-AUC is worse with our complete data
                           (AUC = 0.85) than with the data sets used in the Botometer creators’ original papers which
                                        received an AUC of 0.94 [4]. However, their baseline model also received only an AUC of 0.85
                                        in the original paper. The nearer the ROC curve (Fig 2) is to the upper-left corner and the
                               more space is under the curve, the better Botometer can distinguish between bots and humans.
                                     In the lower-left corner the curve starts with a threshold of 0 for the Botometer which means
                                        the false-positive rate is 0 but at the same time 0 of the bots in the population will be identified.
                                The curve ends with a threshold of 1 in the upper-right corner as then all bots in the popula-
                                         tion will be identified. However, such a threshold also means that all human accounts will be
                                   wrongly classified as bots (false-positive rate = 1). Each point in the curve thus represents a
                                            specific threshold for which the true positive rate as well as the false positive rate is shown.
                             When applying this to our data sets, we see that the classifier has the highest AUC score for
                                        the US politicians and bots data set (0.93) followed by Varol et al.’s labeled data set (0.86). The
                                        score for the German politicians and German bots yields a lower score (0.76). As we only had a
                                   few German bots we also tested the German politicians and bots (with the new bots instead of
                                        the German bots) which had a slightly higher AUC (0.78).
                                 We, then, calculated the ROC-AUC for the universal CAP (complete automation probabil-
                                                     ity; Fig 3 and Table 3). We could observe similar results as before for the universal score: the
                           US politicians received the highest AUC (0.94) followed by Varol et al. (0.86), the complete
                                       data set (0.86), the German politicians with the new bots (0.78) and the German politicians
                                 and the German bots (0.77).
                                      For RQ2 we suggest a thought experiment based on the data sets analyzed in this study.
                                  While the data sets are not perfectly balanced, they definitely do not represent the imbalanced
                                            ratio of bots and human accounts of the real Twitter population. We thus assume for our simu-
                                           lation that the Twitter population has 15% bots [4] and 85% non-bots. We first gave every sin-
                                            gle account a sampling probability that reflects the occurrence of cases in the Twitter
                                      population (n bots/0.15 and n humans/0.85) and took 100,000 random samples with replace-
                                ment for every analyzed data set. As a result, we created new data sets that have 15,000 bots
                                 and 85,000 non-bots. We then calculated for all the data sets the ROC-AUC as well as the
                           PR-AUC (see Tables 2 and 3). As expected the ROC-AUC is the same with the new sample
                                       data for all analyzed data sets, which is also in line with what Saito & Rehmsmeier [33] show in





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                         7 / 20
