PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research



                                              et al. [14], Cresci and colleagues [16], as well as Echeverrı`a et al. [15] did in their studies. Our
                                             results are in line with this prior research as Botometer struggles with specific types of
                                        accounts, bots and humans, that are not covered by the training data [18]. We do think that
                                     Botometer can still be a useful tool for researchers, journalists as well as citizens. Just recently a
                              new version (v4) of Botometer was released that addressed some aspects of our criticism [43]
                                 and has overall a better performance than prior versions of Botometer, such as the one (v3)
                                      analyzed in our study. Yet, major points of criticism that we identified here such as unclarity
                                      regarding what type of bot Botometer identifies, inadequate training data for other languages,
                                 and the potential vulnerability to temporal patterns still apply for Botometer’s new version.
                                     Botometer thus should, in this context, only be one step of a multi-step process that is built
                                  around human investigation of individual accounts [11]. While prior research has shown that
                               humans in the case of crowdsourcing fail with more complex bots [16], we believe experienced
                                        researchers will still be able to identify bots with a combination of classifiers and manual foren-
                                               sic analysis. However, we believe that for computational social scientists working at scale, the
                                        uncertainty is too high. At least researchers should be aware of the data used as training data
                                          for the classifier that might only cover certain types of bots [15, 16, 18]. If researchers want to
                                      use Botometer for their datasets or even develop their own new classifiers we suggest certain
                                          steps going forward:

                                               1. Manual classification: They should manually analyze a substantial sample of the classified
                                        bot and human accounts that were classified by the machine learning system. Researchers
                                        could then calculate the intercoder-reliability between the machine learning system’s classi-
                                               fication and the human coder classification. While the percentage agreement is already an
                                              interesting indicator, we would highly recommend the use of a measurement like Krippen-
                                                dorff’s alpha [45] that takes into account chance agreement. They should also always manu-
                                                   ally validate, if possible, all the accounts that were classified as bots by the machine learning
                                       system if researchers want to make statements about the number of bots in a population.
                             When a data set is too large for a complete manual analysis researchers should at least take
                                    an appropriate random sample for a manual classification. Furthermore, if the accounts in
                                         a data set are not homogenous (e.g., different languages, different topical context) research-
                                              ers should use a stratified sampling strategy for manual post-hoc validation (see also point 4
                                          below).

                                               2. Time: Researchers should validate their results over time. As we’ve shown with Botometer,
                                          the scores are prone to changes over time. Consequently, researchers using Botometer or
                                        developing a new machine learning classifier should test their data set over time and look at
                                          the changes over time.

                                               3. Language: Researchers should be aware of Botometer’s limitations (that are even stated by
                                          the creators of the tool) when it comes to classifying accounts that tweet in other languages.
                                      Hence, scholars will have to consider using other tools to check the number of bots in their
                                          data set; e.g., manual coding. Future machine learning systems should also consider differ-
                                          ent languages.

                                               4. Data sharing: Researchers analyzing bots should share the user ids of the classified “bots” as
                                          the Twitter developer terms allows researchers to share the id of users. While the creators of
                                       Botometer share their lists of bots on their official homepage, social scientists using Bot-
                                       ometer or similar machine learning systems in their studies often do not even share the ids
                                            of the accounts that got classified as bots.





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                        16 / 20
