PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research



                                               least once. However, the universal CAP, works better for the new bots as well as the German
                                              bots.


                          Discussion

                                     In a time where terms like “computational propaganda” [38], “disinformation campaigns”
                                        [39] or “coordinated inauthentic behavior” [40] are often used, identifying the automated
                                     accounts that spread disinformation or attempt to shift the conversation seems paramount.
                                      Indeed, being able to estimate the degree of inauthentic behaviors within a given online dis-
                                      course and understanding their patterns could lead to the identification of coordinated disin-
                                     formation campaigns. Consequently, there was and still is an academic demand for tools like
                                     Botometer that did not only come with an API but, more importantly, also with the necessary
                                   academic credentials (i.e. institution and citations). Botometer was and is a very good example
                                         of how supervised machine learning models analysing single accounts can be trained and what
                                        the potential outcome might be.
                                             Yet, as we show in this study, researchers should be cautious using tools that were devel-
                                 oped by other scientists, sometimes in a totally different context. A high ROC-AUC score with
                                        the original data set and research setting does not translate into a good “precision” for compu-
                                            tational social science studies investigating a different context as we show for Botometer v3.
                              Our results are thus in line with what some prior studies could show for older versions of Bot-
                                     ometer [14, 16]. Even a good diagnostic ability (ROC-AUC) leads to problematic outcomes
                              when the population baseline is considered. In other words: just because the model works with
                                        the test data set, does not mean that the results are reliable for a specific use case. As scientists
                              we should care about reliability, validity, and reproducibility [41, 42]. In many of the social sci-
                                    ence studies that make use of Botometer, these criteria have been disregarded. As we have
                               shown with our analysis, Botometer has problems in identifying false positives and false nega-
                                              tives in our collections when applying analytical approaches from computational social sci-
                                         ences; especially with thresholds used in prior studies. This is noteworthy, as our data sets
                                        consisted either of accounts that Botometer was directly trained on or where the cases were
                                          clear-cut and easily identifiable for a human coder. The Botometer creators [43] argue in their
                                    newest paper that some of the German politicians’ accounts used in our study might have a
                                          certain degree of automation. However, we manually checked all false-positive politician
                                     accounts (score above .76) and only one out of 27 false-positive politicians shows some behav-
                                           ior that might be classified by Botometer as Automation. Namely, the politician had synchro-
                                      nized her Facebook account with her Twitter account and all Facebook posts were also pushed
                                      over Twitter. This shows that Botometer’s misclassification is not due to real automation by the
                                              political accounts. Indeed, most of the other accounts that had been falsely classified as bots
                                   were mostly inactive and hadn’t tweeted in that time period. Furthermore, we show that the
                                        scores change over time, thus, effectively, making studies that use Botometer data from one day
                                     or a week hard to replicate. Botometer worked, unsurprisingly, better on accounts that the
                                      algorithm was trained on even in our analysis over time. However, the tool was imprecise over
                                    time for the new bots as well as the German dataset. In addition, bots that are not aimed at
                                        entertaining other users but rather aim at obfuscating their automated identity and real goals
                                                    (e.g., spreading misinformation) will pretend to be humans, thus making it even harder for bot
                                        detection tools to identify them [11, 16]. In this sense, distinguishing clearly between humans
                                         as well as bots is the minimum that bot detection tools should accomplish. Indeed, as research-
                                           ers we should be careful when relying on existing tools and, as our thought experiment
                                          highlighted, also have to be mindful of the population we apply the classifiers on. If the num-
                                        bers of bots are in the minority for the general population (as we assume in this case on





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                        14 / 20
