PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research



                                        automatically lead to media attention and increased scrutiny. In Germany, for example, jour-
                                              nalists have discovered a network around AfD politicians’ Twitter accounts that consisted of
                                     sockpuppets that boosted engagement numbers [29]. This is not to say that politicians might
                                     not make use of any automation but rather that this form of automation is and should not be
                                     confused with bots or social bots. Finally, we also included Varol’s list that included both bots
                                         as well as humans. While we were not always able to individually verify whether an account
                                 was a bot or a human, we trust in the initial categorization which parts of Botometer’s training
                                                    is based on. As a result, we have four data sets of accounts that human coders would have no
                                              difficulty in differentiating between bots and humans and one which was used to train the Bot-
                                     ometer classifier on. Based on these criteria, we would expect the Botometer tool to perform
                                         rather well as the “real world” data from Twitter is much messier.
                                To conduct this test, we created a Python script that ran every day at 00:00 UTC time on an
                               Ubuntu Linux server for 3 months (3rd March– 2nd of June, 2019). The data collection went
                                       uninterrupted. For every account in our sample (n = 4,583) we requested the Twitter data via
                                        the Twitter search API and the Botometer user scores via the Botometer API giving us a total of
                                      374,724 valid scores. For the analysis we accessed Botometer v3 [12] which was the latest ver-
                                       sion of the tool in March 2019. Besides an empty timeline (Botometer needs at least one tweet–
                                       2,021 calls had to be excluded), missing accounts (mainly from Varol’s data set which includes
                                     accounts that do not exist anymore– 11,197 calls) and private accounts (also mainly from Var-
                                                  ol’s data set– 33,608 calls had to be excluded), only 86 calls (less than 0.05% of all calls)
                                      returned an error because of a technical API issue from Botometer or the Twitter API. Eventu-
                                                ally we could analyze 4,134 existing accounts that could be accessed at least once during the
                                       process of data collection and have at least one tweet on their timeline (see Table 1). For the
                                        following analysis we use the language-independent universal Botometer score between 0 and
                                  1 (which corresponds to the score 0–5 also used by Botometer—e.g., 0.5 will be 2.5), the specific
                                       English language Botometer score between 0 and 1, as well as Botometer’s newly integrated
                                       English and universal complete automation probability (CAP) (ranging between 0 and 1).
                                  While we are aware that the Botometer creators offer more fine-grained feature scores besides
                                        the overall universal scores, we focus on the universal overall scores as they are the scores used
                                  by social scientists in their studies and are independent from the language that the accounts
                                       tweet in. Still, as we are interested in language differences we also report Botometer’s English
                                        scores for our third research question (see also S1–S5 Figs for all other visualizations with the
                                       English score and CAP).
                                      For RQ1 we compared the ROC-AUC (Receiver Operating Characteristics-Area Under
                                The Curve) with the old ROC-AUC reported in older studies for Botometer to evaluate Bot-
                                        ometer’s diagnostic ability. ROC-AUC indicates how well a model discriminates between two
                                            classes (bot and no bot). The true positive rate on the y-axis is plotted against the false positive
                                           rate on the x-axis. While this statistic is useful to directly compare the overall performance of
                                           different models and labelled data sets with regard to the accuracy of the classifications, this
                                        evaluation method also has its limitations [30, 31]. Researchers, for example, are often not
                                          interested in all potential score thresholds as used in the AUC-ROC approach and instead only
                                        in specific classification values [32]. The AUC-ROC approach does not consider the cost of
                                             false-positive and false-negatives and does not fully consider imbalances in the general popula-
                                         tion [33]. However, in their original paper for the first version of the tool (BotOrNot) the
                                      authors transparently warn that the accuracy of their model (they received a ROC-AUC of
                                          0.95/0.94) overestimates future performance due to the age of the training data [3].
                                  As the ROC-AUC approach has limitations, we also use a different approach for RQ2. In
                                      bot research the biggest problem is the lower occurrence of bots in relation to humans. In the
                                        general population of all Twitter users there are more real users than bots. However, the





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                         6 / 20
