PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research





    Fig 8. Density plots for the different data sets. Left: Density plots for the different combined data sets in our analysis showing the distribution of Botometer’s
    universal score. We used the resampled data sets with 15% bots and 85% humans with a total n = 100,000 for each data set. Right: Density plots for the human accounts
    data sets. Lines indicate the median, a bandwidth of 0.04 was used for all data sets. The x-axis represents the Botometer score and the y-axis represents the density.

    https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045.g008


                                          Twitter), even a small false-positive rate might lead to a high number of human accounts
                                   wrongly classified as bots.
                                            This, then, raises the question if researchers should make use of Botometer at all. And while
                                  an argument in favor of Botometer would be that, while not perfect, it is at least an approxima-
                                         tion towards identifying bots on Twitter, our counter-argument would be that the issue of
                                               false positive and false negative rates for specific thresholds with data sets based on the general
                                       Twitter population as well as the tool’s vulnerability to temporal changes or different languages
                                do call the tool’s classifications into question. A solution researchers might come up with
                                 would be to shift the focus from thresholds to the overall distribution of the raw scores to eval-
                                       uate the prevalence of bots in a data set, i.e. to measure the “bottiness”. However, based on our
                                           analysis we would not recommend such an approach as different data sets with the same
                             human to bot ratio as well as our human data sets can look differently in density plots (see Fig
                                               8; see also S5 Fig). While the shift from individual accounts analysed with supervised classifiers
                                         to unsupervised classifiers focusing on group behaviour is promising [16, 22], researchers
                                     should also be cautious if they arbitrarily choose thresholds [44]. Even a good classifier can be
                                  bad if researchers use it in the wrong context without any validation.
                                     However, we also have to add as a limitation that we tested the tool with a few specific data
                                                 sets. We have chosen data sets that make it easy for us to evaluate the ground truth and we still
                                       expect very similar results with future analyses. Furthermore, we have used a data set of bots
                                          that includes some of the most obvious bots. If researchers manually validate the tool again
                                     with their own unique data analysis, they of course should make use of the tool. Our analysis
                                           also shows what Saito and Rehmsmeier [33] recommend in their study: the PR-curve is more
                                       informative if we are dealing with imbalanced data in the population.
                                  With that having said, we want to emphasize that we do not think that Botometer is a bad
                                          tool in general; we rather suggest that researchers should be aware of Botometer’s limitations
                              when using the tool and care about validation with their own labeled data sets like Fernquist





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                        15 / 20
