PLOS ONE                                              The False positive problem of automatic bot detection in social science research



                                               5. Improvements: Going forward, researchers should support tools that are not based on
                                          black boxes but rather commit to the idea of open science. We should be able to work
                                           together on finding solutions and improving those solutions over time. This, then, would
                                              also allow us to deal more transparently with potential weaknesses.

                                                Finally, there are other ways to identify bots on Twitter as Cresci [22] and Orabi et al. [20]
                                show in their overviews. We believe it is important to consider the context as Bastos and Mer-
                                       cea [2], for example, have investigated suspicious patterns based on communication metrics as
                                         well as network analytics. And while this method might be more complicated and computa-
                                            tionally expensive, it offers social scientists a way forward in identifying bots and understand-
                                       ing patterns of disinformation campaigns. Overall it is also important to broaden the
                                         perspective and focus more on political digital astroturfing [46] for which bots are just one
                                          potential dimension [47]. A potential solution could be to focus, as suggested in the literature,
                               more on group behavior with unsupervised classifiers [22] in combination with a descriptive
                                              digital forensic analysis [11]. Still, our suggestions from above hold true even in this new sce-
                                       nario as Vargas and colleagues [44] show in the evaluation of such methods.


                          Supporting information

                                 S1 Fig. Receiver operating characteristics curve for Botometer. The English score (left) and
                                        the English CAP (right). Average score over 3 months for each account.
                            (DOCX)

                                 S2 Fig. Distribution of the SD for single accounts plotted as groups. Left for the Botometer
                                       English score, right for the Botometer English CAP. Bandwith of 0.015 was used for the both.
                            (DOCX)

                                 S3 Fig. Changing score over time. Percentage of accounts (y-axis) that have at least once a
                                        score in the three months below as well as above the threshold for all thresholds between 0 and
                                  1 in steps of 0.05. Left for the English score, right for the English CAP.
                            (DOCX)

                                 S4 Fig. CAP precision-recall curves for the resampled data sets. We consider the population
                                         baseline on Twitter (15% bots) for the English score (left) and the English CAP score (right).
                                      Black points indicate the precision and the recall for the Botometer English score 0.76 (left)
                                 and for the English CAP 0.25 (right). With the German politicians and bots for almost every
                                       threshold level the identified sample of bots has more humans than real bots (precision).
                            (DOCX)

                                 S5 Fig. Density plots for the different data sets. Left: Density plots for the different combined
                                       data sets in our analysis showing the distribution of Botometer’s English score. We used the
                                    resampled data sets with 15% bots and 85% humans with a total n = 100,000 for each data set.
                                         Right: Density plots for the human accounts data sets. Lines indicate the median, a bandwidth
                                         of 0.04 was used for all data sets.
                            (DOCX)



                        Acknowledgments

                        We thank Chung-hong Chan as well as Momin M. Malik for their valuable feedback that
                                     helped us to substantially improve our paper. We also want to thank Martin Fuchs for provid-
                                       ing us with his manually validated list of German Members of Parliament.





PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0241045  October 22, 2020                                                        17 / 20
