6                                                                                  Mannocci et al.


  Definition 2.6. Coordinated mass harassment (2021):  Coordinated efforts of mass harassment that target individuals at

   heightened risk of offline harm [38].

Definitions 2.5 and 2.6 adopt the concept of harmfulness in place of inauthenticity, thereby broadening the scope to also

encompass authentic yet coordinated actors. These, in fact, hold the potential to cause negative consequences both on

and offthe platforms, as underscored in Definition 2.5.

2.2.2   Twitter/X. In October 2018, the platform released a public archive containing data about identified information
operations (IOs) [117]. Although not explicitly stated in Twitter’s definition at the time, a certain degree of coordination
is necessary for the success of an IO [18, 138]. However, it was not until January 2021 that Twitter adopted a similar

approach to Facebook and released a definition that explicitly addresses instances where coordination is leveraged to

cause harm both online and offline.

  Definition 2.7. Information operation (2018):  People directly involved in manipulation that can be reliably attributed to a

  government or state-linked actor [134].

  Definition 2.8. Coordinated harmful activity (2021):  Groups, movements, or campaigns that are engaged in coordinated

   activity resulting in harm on and offof Twitter [135].

2.2.3  YouTube/Google. In its reports, primarily concerning abuses that occurred on YouTube, Google makes reference
to coordinated influence operations (CIO) [46]. Even though Google did not provide a definition for CIOs, they nonetheless
highlighted the importance of coordination in these online manipulations.

2.2.4   Reddit. In contrast to other platforms, Reddit embraced the broad concept of content manipulation to characterize
the campaigns that violate its rules [109]. The platform shared only a small number of such campaigns, leaving it

unclear whether these represent the entirety of the identified cases, or only a selection of them. Despite the absence of

an explicit reference to coordination, large-scale content manipulations gain advantage from coordinated activities,

similarly to what we discussed earlier about IOs.

  Definition 2.9. Content manipulation (2022):  Things like spam, community interference, vote manipulation, and other attempts

   to artificially promote content [109].

2.2.5   Tiktok. In 2023, TikTok revisited Facebook’s definition of CIB, explicitly linking coordination with inauthenticity.
In doing so, it emphasizes coordinated activity aimed at misleading users or influencing public discourse. Among the

cited examples, TikTok highlights coordination in the context of information operations, such as accounts covertly

promoting political candidates or issues, or posting content on behalf of foreign entities without proper disclosure.

  Definition 2.10. Covert Influence Operations (2023):  Coordinated, inauthentic behaviors where networks of accounts work

   together to mislead people or our systems and try to strategically influence public discussion. This may include attempting to

  undermine the results of an election, influencing parts of an armed conflict, or shaping public discussion of social issues. [131].

2.2.6  Ambiguities and limitations. This brief survey of the main concepts and definitions proposed by social media
shows that online platforms are at the forefront in the analysis of coordinated online behavior. However, their con-

ceptualizations are driven primarily by pressing practical regulation needs and by immediate contingencies, rather

than by methodological rigor and theoretical soundness [35]. Faced with specific instances of malicious coordination,

online platforms adopt different and at times contrasting definitions, adding confusion and ambiguity to the already

challenging task of defining an inherently nuanced and complex phenomenon [89].

Manuscript submitted to ACM
