24                                                                                 Mannocci et al.


Reddit and 4chan communities, identifying the community responsible for each attack based on linguistic patterns and

similarities. In [84], a graph neural network model is exploited to recognize normal and abnormal communities.

   Network. A simpler approach is proposed in [40], where a small expert-labeled ground truth of organic and inorganic
campaigns is used to characterize campaigns along network, temporal, and semantic dimensions. Unknown campaigns

are then labeled as coordinated if their indicators fall within the 95% confidence interval of inorganic campaigns and

outside that of organic ones. In [4] a graph classification method based on random weighted walks leverages the density

of local network structures to distinguish coordinated from non-coordinated networks. Kanakaris et al. [57] model

retweet networks as propagation trees, encode them into text via graph prompting, and combine them with content and

similarity-based examples in a RAG framework, enabling an LLM to classify coordinated disinformation campaigns.

   Target. In [83], authors propose a system to predict YouTube videos likely to be targeted by coordinated hate attacks,
using features from metadata, transcripts, and thumbnails, and an ensemble classifier trained on previously raided
videos. As previously discussed, the approach in [108] operates at both the user and target levels.


4.3  Discussion

4.3.1  Modeling complex coordination. In Section 2 we highlighted that coordinated online behavior is complex and
multifaceted, often involving various actions across multiple platforms. Consequently, methods that analyze only a

single type of action—particularly single-layer network approaches—risk missing significant coordination activities. To
address this limitation, using multiplex networks and compound actions can offer more comprehensive insights. The
network science framework presented in Section 4.1 supports both single- and multi-layer (i.e., multiplex) networks.

However, few studies considered multiple co-actions and built multiplex networks, as summarized in Table 5. Moreover,

to fully leverage the benefits of multiplex networks, these should not be flattened before running the community

detection algorithm, which must be specifically designed for multiplex networks so as to utilize the multiple layers

effectively [74]. Unfortunately, only a few studies possess these characteristics [29, 32, 70, 72, 94], making the analysis

of coordinated behavior across multiple actions a largely unexplored area of research. Compound co-actions, combining

simpler actions (e.g., a post with both a hashtag and user mention), can enhance detection confidence because they are

less likely to occur by chance [73]. However, this approach is also almost completely unexplored. In conclusion, too

little research has been conducted so far on using multiple co-actions for detecting coordinated online behavior, leaving

the actual advantages of these methods over single-action analysis unclear. Moreover, any potential benefits must be

weighed against the increased complexity and computational costs that they introduce.

4.3.2  Network science vs. machine learning. Most methods for detecting coordinated behavior rely on network science,
offering greater generality and expressiveness than machine learning approaches. They effectively model complex

interactions and relationships, capturing varying degrees of coordination [100], tracking temporal changes [129], and

providing detailed characterizations of coordinated groups [128]. The disadvantage is the computational cost of analyzing

large networks and the requirement for human analysts to interpret results, making them less suitable for being directly

used in automatic decision making systems. A further drawback is their sensitivity to specific parameters, such as those

defining the way in which the timings of user actions are modeled [144], which can significantly impact the obtained

results and for which few guidelines currently exist [95, 129]. Instead, data mining and machine learning methods

often rely on oversimplified assumptions, such as the existence of a sharp binary distinction between coordinated

and non-coordinated actors, which overlooks the nuanced nature of online coordination. This binary approach can

undermine the theoretical and practical reliability of results. Furthermore, these methods face limitations due to the

Manuscript submitted to ACM
