2                                                                                  Mannocci et al.





 Fig. 1. Coordination is a fundamental aspect of online human interactions
 and the study of coordinated online behavior can complement the analyses    Fig. 2. Number of articles published yearly on co-
 of many other online phenomena.                                          ordinated online behavior.

their false narratives [59, 125, 138]. Similarly, coordination is employed within information operations [18, 99, 138],

coordinated social media manipulation [87, 130], and astroturfing, which involves creating the false appearance of

grassroots support for a target cause, product, or person [59]. Also, social bots (automated accounts [23, 93]) and trolls

(human-driven accounts engaging in collective disruptive or deceptive behavior [153]) exploit coordination to amplify

messages, manipulate trends, or spread disinformation [69, 82, 153]. Coordination both results from and contributes

to echo chambers and online polarization [139]. Figure 1 illustrates its multifaceted nature, underlying diverse and

interconnected phenomena in online social media.

   Recognizing the profound impact of online coordination on social media as well as its consequences on the offline

world, both researchers [100, 102, 138, 146] and industry stakeholders [35] devoted a great deal of efforts to study its

dynamics and to develop effective strategies to detect and mitigate its malicious instances. Research sped up significantly
after 2018, when Facebook introduced the concept of coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB) [35], marking a milestone
in the development of the field. As shown in Figure 2, subsequent years saw a surge of interest on the subject, testified

by the steadily growing number of published papers, with only a minor fluctuation in 2023. This survey is motivated by

this thriving interest on online coordination, which resulted in the availability of a large body of work. However, while

Facebook’s interest towards online coordination was constrained to inauthentic behaviors as a response to the threat of

orchestrated campaigns [35], here we embrace a more holistic and unbiased view by focusing on the broader concept of
coordinated behavior. This inclusive approach allows for the analysis of a broader spectrum of works, including those
focused on legitimate collective actions, offering a more comprehensive understanding of the coordination dynamics

that shape digital spaces and fostering nuanced perspectives that go beyond mere threat detection. In spite of the many

efforts, the existing literature still reflects the complexities and ambiguities surrounding this phenomenon. Among them

is the limited agreement on a shared definition, which also hinders operationalization. Complexity also emerges from the

diversity of methods proposed for detecting and characterizing coordinated online behavior, which impairs comparisons

between different works and limits the generalizability of findings. Finally, the use of the same coordination technique

by actors with disparate motivations poses challenges to estimating the impact and effects of online coordination.

   This survey offers an extensive overview and critical analysis on coordinated behavior, starting from reconciling

existing definitions from industry and academia, and proposing a general and comprehensive conceptual framework.

We systematically analyze and categorize existing approaches for detecting and characterizing online coordination,

elucidating open challenges and delineating promising directions for future research. Our work provides a roadmap for

scholars, practitioners, and policymakers navigating the evolving complexities of coordinated online behavior.

   Significance. Comprehensively modeling coordinated online behavior has far-reaching implications. On a theoretical
level, it reconciles diverse definitions and provides a foundational framework for future research. On a technical level,

Manuscript submitted to ACM
