Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                    9


actions among actors indicates the degree of planning and organization involved [73, 155]. The consistency of the

actions and the actions performed in response to external events are further characteristics of coordinated behaviors.

Finally, the types of actions and their content provides insights into the intent and goals of the actors [19].

2.4.3   Intent. The intent is the objective that the actors pursue when they coordinate. When studying coordinated
online behavior, the intent of the actors is typically unknown, if not deliberately concealed. For example, actors involved

in malicious or harmful coordination conceal their intent to avoid being stopped in their endeavor [51]. However, also

actors involved in neutral or benign forms of coordination might not openly state their goals and intent. For this reason,

the observer often tries to infer the intent based on the visible actions performed by the actors. Furthermore, intent can

be either shared and explicit among the actors, or implicit. For instance, the perpetrators of a disinformation campaign

share the explicit goal of disseminating certain pieces of false information [59]. Conversely, fans of a sports team or

public character may spontaneously engage in coordinated actions to support their idol, without having agreed on

a specific objective or course of action [100]. The previous examples highlight that the characteristics of the intent

are related to the degree of organization of the actors. Importantly, the intent also contributes to determining the

harmfulness of the coordinated behavior. However, while there are cases in which it is relatively straightforward to

categorize a coordinated behavior as harmful or otherwise—think for example of coordinated hate attacks [83] or

state-backed disinformation campaigns [18]—there also exist situations where the harmfulness of the intent is inherently

subjective. Coordinated efforts to promote a controversial political ideology may be perceived as harmful by some,

while others may view them as legitimate expressions of free speech [102]. Similarly, coordinated campaigns to boycott

a company or criticize a public figure may be seen as harmful by those targeted, but supporters may genuinely view

them as justified forms of activism [97].


2.5  Defining dimensions of coordinated online behavior

As discussed in the preceding sections, coordinated online behavior constitutes a complex and multifaceted phenomenon

whose instances are contingent upon the actions and intent of the involved actors. Here we leverage our discussion

about the fundamental components of online coordination to introduce four defining dimensions of this phenomenon:

authenticity, harmfulness, orchestration, and time-variance.

2.5.1   Authenticity. Authenticity refers to the degree of genuineness and transparency that the actors exhibit in their
actions and overall online presence. Coordinated authentic behavior is executed by genuine actors and typically emerges

organically within a community of users who share common interests or beliefs. Examples of authentic coordination

are activists, social movements, and mutual support groups, which are driven by motivations such as a desire for social

or political change or the cultivation of a sense of community and belonging [100, 126]. While authentic forms of

coordination are also harmless in the majority of cases, as in the previous examples, there also exist less frequent cases

of authentic yet harmful behaviors. For instance, certain coordinated hate groups openly encourage racist, xenophobic,

or supremacist ideologies [95, 97, 146]. Conversely, coordinated inauthentic behavior entails the use of fake accounts,

such as social bots, trolls, and fake personas [25, 115]. These are typically employed for purposes such as spreading

disinformation, sowing confusion, or eroding trust in democratic institutions. As such, inauthentic coordination is

often characterized by its deceptive nature and aim to manipulate unaware users [125]. Nonetheless, there exist cases

of inauthentic yet harmless coordination. For example, online participants in the Arab Spring movements concealed

their identities to avoid government surveillance and potential reprisals [126]. While their coordinated efforts were

inauthentic in terms of individual identity disclosure, they remained largely harmless in intent, aiming to promote

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
