Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                   33


provide a contribution. In spite of the challenges however, the comprehensive understanding of the phenomenon and

the effective mitigation of its nefarious instances can only be achieved through the collaboration between diverse

stakeholders, such as scholars, platform operators, policymakers, and civil society organizations.

   Ethical dilemmas. Research on coordinated online behavior also faces some ethical dilemmas. The process of
collecting and analyzing online data involves monitoring user interactions and behaviors, which can raise concerns

about surveillance and consent. The inherent subjectivity of coordinated behavior leads to additional challenges, as

certain coordinated actions may be punished on some platforms while being tolerated on others [31], resulting in

imbalanced interventions and potentially unfair decisions. Characterizing coordinated actors further complicates

matters, as this requires assessing the authenticity and harmfulness of actors who might have strong motivations—such

as social and political reasons [61, 126]—for remaining anonymous, raising privacy concerns. Additionally, developing

methods to detect coordinated actors presents risks as these tools could be misused to silence certain groups or minorities,

thereby selectively threatening freedom of expression. Ultimately, these issues demand that great attention to ethical

and normative considerations should be devoted in future research.



7  CONCLUSIONS

Coordination is a fundamental dynamic of human behavior and its study holds great theoretical significance and

numerous practical implications. Theoretically, understanding coordinated online behavior contributes to shedding

light on social dynamics, group formation, and collective action. Practically, this research is pivotal in combating

online manipulations, such as disinformation campaigns and orchestrated hate attacks, and fostering more inclusive

online spaces that promote genuine cooperation and constructive discourse. However, the field faces several significant

challenges, including the complexity of multimodal and cross-platform analyses, the opportunities and perils of

generative AI, the scarcity of labeled data, the subjectivity and ethical dilemmas inherent to the evaluation of coordinated

behavior. These diverse challenges, coupled with the broad interest in the topic, highlight the need for multidisciplinary

efforts from diverse research communities. In the coming years, these efforts should aim to develop a comprehensive

array of datasets, methods, and studies to better understand and address this complex and dynamic phenomenon.



REFERENCES

  [1] Md Sayeed Al-Zaman. 2025. Coordinated Computational Propaganda: Exploring Social Bot Activities During the July Revolution of Bangladesh.
       Social Science Computer Review (2025).
  [2] Réka Albert and Albert-László Barabási. 2002. Statistical mechanics of complex networks. Reviews of modern physics 74, 1 (2002), 47.
  [3]  Iuliia Alieva, Lynnette H. X. Ng, and Kathleen M. Carley. 2022. Investigating the spread of Russian disinformation about biolabs in Ukraine on
      Twitter using social network analysis. In IEEE BigData. 1770–1775.
  [4] Atul Anand Gopalakrishnan, Jakir Hossain, Tuğrulcan Elmas, and Ahmet Erdem Sarıyüce. 2025. Density-Aware Walks for Coordinated Campaign
      Detection. In ECML-PKDD. 283–298.
  [5] Despoina Antonakaki and Sotiris Ioannidis. 2026. Coordinated Information Dissemination on Telegram and Reddit During Political Turbulence: A
      Case Study of Venezuela in Global News Channels. arXiv:2602.13333
  [6] Dennis Assenmacher, Lena Adam, Heike Trautmann, and Christian Grimme. 2020. Towards real-time and unsupervised campaign detection in
       social media. In AAAI FLAIRS. 303–307.
  [7] Dennis Assenmacher, Lena Clever, Janina S. Pohl, Heike Trautmann, and Christian Grimme. 2020. A two-phase framework for detecting
      manipulation campaigns in social media. In HCII. 201–214.
  [8] David Axelrod and John Paolillo. 2025. Structure and Context of Retweet Coordination in the 2022 US Midterm Elections. arXiv:2501.11165
  [9] Helmy H. Baligh. 1986. Decision rules and transactions, organizations and markets. Management Science 32, 11 (1986), 1480–1491.
 [10] Helmy H. Baligh and Richard M. Burton. 1981. Describing and designing organizational structures and processes. International Journal of Policy
      Analysis and Information Systems 5, 4 (1981), 251–266.

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
