30                                                                                 Mannocci et al.





                                                                             Fig. 10. Distribution of works focused on different types
                                                                         of coordinated behavior, categorized based on the defining
                                                               dimensions of authenticity, harmfulness, orchestration, and
   Fig. 9. Distribution of works based on the combination of analyzed   time-variance. Vertical bars show the number of works
   platforms. The vast majority of works analyzed a single platform,   for each combination of dimensions, while horizontal bars
  mainly Twitter/X. Only a few works performed cross-platform anal-  show the number of works for each individual dimension.
   yses, represented by multiple connected dots.                  Only combinations covered by 2+ works are shown.

hashtags, with minor variations between platforms. In contrast, cross-platform campaigns involve different platforms
playing distinct roles, with coordinated behavior varying significantly across the involved platforms. For example,

organizers of a targeted hate attack might use private groups on a messaging platform to plan their actions before moving

to the target platform to flood it with hateful comments [55]. Detecting coordination on the planning platform might

involve analyzing group joinings, while on the target platform it could involve examining synchronized commenting.

The example highlights the challenges of multi- and cross-platform analyses, which require extensive data collection,

careful selection of actions or machine learning features for each platform, and identification of the same groups of users
across multiple platforms. While the latter can be mitigated via the analysis of content rather than user networks—as
discussed in Section 4.1.5—the remaining outstanding challenges result in a scarcity of multi- and cross-platform

analyses. Figure 9 shows that most studies analyzed coordinated behavior on Twitter/X, with only a few multiplatform

analyses [11, 32, 52, 55, 81, 97, 98, 110, 113, 156], highlighting that this area still necessitates much investigation.

   Temporal variability. Most studies on coordinated behavior incorporate time to some degree, as shown in Tables 3, 7, 8,
and 9. However, the majority of such works only perform superficial temporal analyses. Figure 10 highlights that only a
few works have deeply investigated the temporal dynamics of coordinated behavior, using methods like multiplex tem-
poral networks [129] and temporal point processes [118, 155]. Thus, analyzing temporal dynamics remains a promising
yet relatively unexplored research avenue. Temporal analyses offer numerous advantages, including examining (i) the
temporal stability of coordinated groups, (ii) changes in membership, structure, and actions, and (iii) adaptation to
countermeasures or other stimuli [45]. Further, dynamic analyses seem to yield more accurate results compared to

static ones [129]. However, this approach faces several challenges, such as setting appropriate temporal parameters and

addressing the computational demands resulting from the time-intensive nature of dynamic analyses.

   Heterogeneity. The great degree of heterogeneity inherent of coordinated behavior does not only manifests through
temporal variations, but also through the multitude of characteristics that the different instances of coordinated

behaviors exhibit. Figure 10 shows the distribution of studies that addressed specific types of online coordination, based
on the defining dimensions introduced in Section 2.5. As shown by the vertical bars, coordinated harmful inauthentic
and orchestrated behavior is the type of coordination that was studied the most. As discussed in Section 2, this is due


Manuscript submitted to ACM
