Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                   11


activities [12]. These actors are employed for specific tasks and then discarded or deactivated once their purpose is

fulfilled or they are detected. As a result, these ephemeral instances of coordination are rapid, intense, and short-lived.


2.6  Taxonomy and final remarks

Our conceptual framework of coordinated online behavior encompasses the three fundamental components pre-

sented in Section 2.4 and the four defining dimensions discussed in Section 2.5, providing a general and flexible

scheme for studying, categorizing, and comprehensively mapping the multiple instances of online coordination.

                                                          2.6.1  Taxonomy. Figure 5 demonstrates the generality of the concep-
            HARMFUL      AUTHENTIC                tual framework by presenting a taxonomy of coordinated online be-

                                               havior based on the dimensions of authenticity and harmfulness. This
           Malicious                            Activists
           Social Bots     Conspiracists                     analysis takes inspiration from the well-known conceptual frame-
                                  Fandoms
         State-backed                                      work of information disorder that categorizes instances of mis-, mal-,                            Extremists      Grassroots                Trolls
                                               Social          and disinformation based on the falseness and harmfulness of the in-
                                  Movements
                                              formation [143]. As shown in Figure 5, the dimensions of authenticity

                                         and harmfulness allow distinguishing between different types of coor-
     Protesters              Hacktivists            Dissidents
                                               dinated online behavior, ranging from potentially nefarious to neutral

Fig. 5. Taxonomy of coordinated online behavior ob-  and beneficial ones. Among the most problematic instances of online
tained by considering the dimensions of harmfulness                                               coordination are harmful and inauthentic phenomena such as infor-
and authenticity of our conceptual framework. The
framework conveniently allows the mapping of dis-  mation operations and disinformation campaigns, which are often ini-
parate instances of online coordination.               tiated by malicious social bots and state-sponsored trolls [3, 18, 138].

Other problematic phenomena are those featuring harmful yet authentic behaviors, such as the activity of conspiracy

theorists and hateful extremists [83, 95, 97]. Conversely, the activity of coordinated crisis communication by democratic

institutions during emergencies [151], grassroots social movements, fandoms, and other activists represent instances

of harmless and authentic coordination [126]. Finally, harmless yet inauthentic behaviors lay outside of the partially

overlapping sets, and are exemplified by hacktivists, dissidents, and other anonymous protesters [126]. Alternative

taxonomies can be obtained by leveraging the dimensions of orchestration and time-variance, which would highlight

additional phenomena to those shown in Figure 5.

2.6.2   Final remarks. The previous instantiation of our conceptual framework in a taxonomy based on the dimensions of
harmfulness and authenticity concludes the theoretical part of the survey. The following section bridges the theoretical

and methodological parts by presenting the problem definition. Subsequently, we systematically review the proposed

methodologies for detecting and characterizing coordinated online behavior, showing how these tasks stem from the

conceptual modeling of the phenomenon presented in this section.


3 PROBLEM DEFINITION

The problem of identifying and investigating different types of coordinated online behavior involves defining two
functions 𝑓(·) and 𝑔(·) that respectively implement the tasks of coordinated behavior detection and characterization, as
outlined in Figure 6. Given a set of users and their actions on one or more online platforms, 𝑓(·) identifies possible
coordinated groups of users. Instead, 𝑔(·) extracts additional information for each detected group, thus contributing to
determining the nature, intent, and the overall characteristics of the involved actors (e.g., whether they are inauthentic,

harmful, etc.). The detection and characterization tasks are related to the Definition 2.11 of coordinated online behavior

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
