Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                   13


compound action [73]. Similarly to the target, also the content can be undefined depending on the type of action, as

in the case of a befriending or following action. To wrap up, the type of action and its timestamp are always defined,

while one of content and target might be optional, depending on the type of action.

3.1.2  Methods and output. As presented in Section 4, most of the existing literature on coordinated behavior detection
analyzes both the set of users and their actions. Some studies only leverage the content of the actions, without

considering their type [26, 83, 141]. Furthermore, certain works do not take into consideration the timings of the

actions [16, 17, 19, 83], while some others only consider the timings [12]. The task of detecting coordinated online
behavior is modelled by the function 𝑓(𝑈, 𝐻), which can provide three different outputs depending on the adopted
method, corresponding to different levels of detail and information on the coordinated users:

                  𝑃= {𝑃1, . . . , 𝑃𝑖, . . . 𝑃𝑘},  𝑃𝑖= (𝑉𝑖, 𝐸𝑖),𝑉𝑖⊆𝑈   communities
                  𝑓(𝑈, 𝐻) =   𝐶= {𝐶1, . . . ,𝐶𝑖, . . .𝐶𝑘},  𝐶𝑖⊆𝑈                clusters                              (1)
                                                                                                                     𝐵= {𝐵𝑐, 𝐵𝑢},        𝐵𝑐∪𝐵𝑢= 𝑈         binary labels
In the most general case, the output of 𝑓(·) is a set 𝑃of communities of coordinated users. Coordinated communities 𝑃𝑖
are sub-networks where the nodes are users from𝑈, and the edges—with their weights—encode the level of coordination

among the users. Communities are typically outputted by those methods that adopt an internal network representation,

which is then analyzed with community detection algorithms. Coordinated communities are an information rich

representation, given that the presence and weight of links between the coordinated users facilitates subsequent
analyses, such as those needed for the characterization task. Another possible output consists of a set of clusters
of users. The clusters 𝐶𝑖are produced by methods that adopt tabular representations of the users, which are then
analyzed with clustering algorithms. These methods typically ignore the relationships between the users but are able to

identify multiple groups of coordinated users. Finally, the least informative output is given by those methods based
on classification algorithms. These methods assign binary labels, partitioning the initial set of users 𝑈in two labeled
groups of coordinated (𝐵𝑐) and non-coordinated (𝐵𝑢) users. These labelled groups do not provide information about
neither the relationships between the users nor the existence of multiple coordinated groups of users in 𝑈.


3.2  Characterization of coordinated online behavior

3.2.1   Input. The characterization task is modelled by the function 𝑔(𝑌, 𝐻) = 𝑀whose inputs are the groups of
coordinated users resulting from the detection task 𝑓(𝑈, 𝐻) = 𝑌∈{𝑃,𝐶, 𝐵}, defined in Eq. (1), with their activities 𝐻.

3.2.2  Methods and output. As discussed in Section 5, the characterization task aims at computing a set of quantitative
indicators 𝑀to measure distinctive properties of the detected coordinated behaviors in terms of the defining dimensions

that we presented in Section 2.5: authenticity, harmfulness, orchestration, and time-variance. The indicators that can

be used in the characterization task partly depend on the methods and outputs of the detection task. For example,

assortativity measures the extent to which nodes with a high degree in a network are connected to other nodes with

a high degree, and vice versa. This indicator was used to gain insights into the inner structure and organization of

certain coordinated communities [100]. However, assortativity can be computed only if the coordination detection

method outputs communities, rather than clusters or binary labels. On the contrary, other indicators can be computed

independently of the detection method, such as the aforementioned bot scores that are commonly used as an estimator

of the inauthenticity of the coordinated users [47, 51, 100, 103]. The utility of the characterization task is not limited to

shedding light on the nature of the detected coordinated behaviors nor to distinguishing between different instances

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
