Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey

         LORENZO MANNOCCI, University of Pisa, Italy and Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research
               Council (IIT-CNR), Italy

          MICHELE MAZZA, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy
        ANNA MONREALE, University of Pisa, Italy
          MAURIZIO TESCONI, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy
          STEFANO CRESCI, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy

                 Coordination is a fundamental aspect of life. The advent of social media has made it integral also to online human interactions,

                such as those that characterize thriving online communities and social movements. At the same time, coordination is also core to

                    effective disinformation, manipulation, and hate campaigns. This survey collects, categorizes, and critically discusses the body of2026        work produced as a result of the growing interest on coordinated online behavior. We reconcile industry and academic definitions,

                 propose a comprehensive framework to study coordinated online behavior, and review and critically discuss the existing detection and

                   characterization methods. Our analysis identifies open challenges and promising directions of research, serving as a guide for scholars,Apr            practitioners, and policymakers in understanding and addressing the complexities inherent to online coordination.


          ACM Reference Format:10
                Lorenzo Mannocci, Michele Mazza, Anna Monreale, Maurizio Tesconi, and Stefano Cresci. 2026. Detection and Characterization of

                 Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey. 1, 1 (April 2026), 39 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn


              1  INTRODUCTION[cs.SI]         Coordination, the process in which multiple connected actors are involved to pursue goals [78], is a fundamental aspect
                 in the existence of various life forms, including human beings. From flocks of birds engaging in synchronized flight to

                  insects working together in colonies, coordination enhances efficiency, safety, and resource utilization [77]. The ability

                 to coordinate actions boosts the chances to overcome environmental challenges, fostering not only individual survival

                but also the resilience and success of entire communities. For these reasons, human coordination has been extensively

                 scrutinized in multiple scientific disciplines interested in the dynamics of our offline interactions [119, 133].
                With the advent of social media platforms, coordination has also become a fundamental component of online interac-
                   tions. Social media users are now provided with a broad array of tools to coordinate with each other, such as hashtags

                 that enable them to collectively discuss specific topics [129]. Online platforms have become a suitable environment for

                organizing social and political movements, giving rise to phenomena such as online activism [94, 100], boycotts [68],

                  protests [73, 126], and coordinated crisis communication by democratic institutions during emergencies [151]. The 2011

             Arab Springs are a notable example, being largely organized through social media [126]. At the same time however,

                 scholars found evidence of online coordination being exploited by nefarious actors for all sorts of malicious purposes.arXiv:2408.01257v2         For instance, disinformation campaigns often leverage actors that coordinate their actions to maximize the outreach of


                    Authors’ addresses: Lorenzo Mannocci, University of Pisa, Italy and Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy,
                     lorenzo.mannocci@di.unipi.it; Michele Mazza, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy, michele.mazza@iit.
                           cnr.it; Anna Monreale, University of Pisa, Italy, anna.monreale@unipi.it; Maurizio Tesconi, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research
                    Council (IIT-CNR), Italy, maurizio.tesconi@iit.cnr.it; Stefano Cresci, Institute for Informatics and Telematics, National Research Council (IIT-CNR), Italy,
                        stefano.cresci@iit.cnr.it.


                      2026. Manuscript submitted to ACM


                   Manuscript submitted to ACM                                                                                           1
