Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                   31


to both practical reasons related to the urgency of contrasting online manipulations, as well as to the large body of

work that adopted Facebook’s initial Definition 2.3 of coordinated inauthentic behavior. Almost all the other remaining
combinations involve harmful behavior and static analyses. Figure 10 also shows that authentic spontaneous and harmless
coordinated behavior is completely unstudied. While harmful, inauthentic, and orchestrated behaviors are of particular

practical relevance for content moderation purposes, the study of harmless, authentic, and spontaneous coordination

should not be overlooked as it provides valuable insights into fundamental aspects of online human interactions.

Therefore, the analysis of the less problematic forms of online coordination should be increased in the near future.
   Multimodality. Online coordination can involve multiple content modalities, such as text, images, and videos. This
diversity of content types adds complexity to detecting and analyzing coordinated behavior, as each modality has

unique characteristics requiring different analytical techniques. For instance, text-based coordination might involve

analyzing text similarities or hashtags use [28, 140, 142]. Image-based coordination could require image recognition

tasks or computing image similarities [42, 103, 152], while video-based coordination demands techniques like video

content analysis and transcript examination. As shown in Tables 2, 6, 7, 8 however, only a handful of works investigated

modalities other than text [42, 83, 99, 103, 121, 152]. Accounting for and integrating different modalities offers the

potential to capture a more comprehensive picture of coordinated behavior, but also poses new challenges. These

include developing features and methodologies to assess similarities based on multimedia content and addressing

the computational demands of multimodal analyses. Nonetheless, given the rising trend of online platforms centered

around multimedia content, multimodal analyses appear promising and well motivated.

   Generative AI The rise of generative AI presents both challenges and opportunities. One potential challenge is the
increased difficulty in detecting coordinated actors that use such techniques to mask their activities. AI is already capable

of producing human-like text with given properties, and increasingly also images, audio, and video [20]. Moreover, it

has already been used to simulate authentic online human behaviors in such a way as to evade detection by existing

systems [93]. Progress in generative AI could thus make it harder to detect future instances of coordinated behavior or

to assess the authenticity of coordinated actors. However, it is still unknown what the effect of these techniques will

be on the landscape of online coordination. At the same time, as discussed in Section 4.4, recent work has begun to

explore LLM-driven agents to simulate coordinated behavior in controlled environments [101]. Looking ahead, these

approaches could enable more realistic and scalable simulations, supporting the development and stress-testing of

detection methods. However, the use of LLMs in this context is still in its early stages, and a systematic understanding

of their capabilities and limitations for modeling coordinated behavior is currently lacking.

   Scalability. Large-scale coordinated campaigns can involve tens of thousands of users and millions of interactions,
posing significant computational challenges, especially for methods based on pairwise user similarities. As a result,

some studies analyze only a small fraction of data—sometimes as little as 1% [30, 100]—limiting reliability. Future efforts

should focus on increasing the scalability of current detection methods to handle the vast amounts of data generated
by large-scale campaigns. Possible solutions to this issue can include the use of approximation algorithms to obtain
near-accurate results with reduced computational complexity, or sampling techniques to select representative data
subsets. Additionally, online algorithms can update results incrementally as new data arrives, while graph summarization
techniques can condense large networks while preserving key structural properties.

   Validation and formalization. As discussed in Section 4.4, current validation strategies only partially alleviate the lack
of labeled data. The challenge of data availability is expected to intensify as access to platform data continues to decline

in the post-API era [132]. Although some works leverage publicly available repositories to construct ground-truth

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
