Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                   25


lack of comprehensive labeled datasets needed for training effective models. Despite these challenges, machine learning

methods excel in encoding diverse actions and characteristics of users, and offer outputs that are directly applicable

for automatic decision-making systems, unlike the more complex network science methods. In conclusion, network

science methods are particularly suitable when the goal is an in depth understanding of the studied phenomenon, while

machine learning methods can be used—with due caution—for quick decisions and when scalability is a concern.


4.4  Validation

The scarcity of labeled data limits the development of coordinated behavior detection methods. This constraint hampers

the adoption of supervised approaches, contributing to the predominance of unsupervised techniques, and complicates

both model tuning and evaluation. As a result, many methods are still assessed through post-hoc analyses rather than

standardized quantitative benchmarks. To address this challenge, existing works adopt three main validation strategies.

   Characterization-based validation. A common approach consists in validating methods through qualitative or descrip-
tive analyses of the detected behaviors. In this setting, outputs are assessed a posteriori by examining account activity,

temporal patterns, content and socio-linguistic signals, and network structure, to verify their consistency with known

characteristics of coordinated behavior. While this strategy enables exploratory insights, it lacks objective ground truth

and limits reproducibility and comparability across methods. Section 5 is dedicated to the task of characterization.

   Public ground-truth datasets. Publicly available datasets can act as ground truth proxies, with some studies constructing
balanced datasets from authoritative repositories6 enabling both training [70] and evaluation [18, 52, 56, 67, 79–

81, 88, 91, 99, 104, 108, 118, 120, 138, 154, 155] of detection methods. However, these datasets are often limited to specific

platforms and coordination types, restricting model generalization.

   Simulation-based validation. An alternative strategy consists in evaluating detection methods in controlled simulated
environments, where coordinated behaviors can be explicitly modeled. Early approaches rely on agent-based models

grounded in empirical observations. For instance, Mehta et al. [86] develop a multi-agent simulation of Reddit to

analyze the impact of coordinated activity on recommendation systems, while Jahn et al. [54] design an agent-based

model with heterogeneous agents (e.g., authentic users and coordinated boosters) to generate synthetic data. Other

approaches generate synthetic datasets by injecting controlled anomalous patterns to enable systematic evaluation

across coordination scenarios [107, 158]. Recent work explores large language models (LLMs) to simulate more realistic

and adaptive behaviors. For instance, in [101] LLM-driven agents are used to mimic both organic users and coordinated

actors under different regimes, from implicit alignment to explicit collaboration. Overall, simulation-based validation

offers a flexible framework, though current efforts remain limited in scale and standardization.


5  CHARACTERIZATION OF COORDINATED BEHAVIOR

When the coordination detection method is not integrated into an automated decision-making system, its output may

initiate the characterization task. The aim of this task is to describe each coordinated user, group, or community along

one or more of the defining dimensions outlined in Section 2.5. Characterizing the detected instances of coordination

can also provide valuable information for validating detection results, especially in the absence of ground truth data.

Characterizing coordinated online behavior is a semi-automatic task, as it involves some degree of manual analyses

and observations by human analysts supported by automatically computed indicators that provide information on

the coordinated actors. Table 9 summarizes the main indicators used for characterizing coordinated actors, whose

6https://transparency.x.com/en/reports/moderation-research.html (accessed: 31/07/2024)

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
