4                                                                                  Mannocci et al.


of 4 non-English papers and 1118 records that were out of scope (e.g., biological coordination, general sociological

coordination, or studies on bot detection or information operations not explicitly addressing coordinated behavior).

Most of these discarded records derived from the search on Google Scholar, likely due to the choice of selecting the

first 1000 results to maximize the coverage. After the screening phase, 83 papers were retained. A backward reference

search of these studies identified an additional 38 relevant papers, resulting in a final corpus of 122 papers included in

this survey. The full selection workflow is illustrated in the PRISMA diagram in Figure 3.
   Subject area distribution. To analyze the disciplinary distribution of the collected studies, each paper was assigned a
subject area based on the official classification associated with the publication outlet. For journal articles, the subject
area was determined using the Scimago Journal Rank classification system1. For conference papers, the classification
provided by the CORE conference ranking portal was used2. For preprints available on arXiv, the category assigned by

arXiv itself was adopted. The resulting distribution of papers across subject areas is shown in Figure 4.

   Organization. This survey is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the theoretical foundations of coordinated
online behavior, proposing a new general definition and laying out a comprehensive conceptual framework. Section 3

bridges the theoretical and methodological parts by defining the detection and characterization tasks. Section 4 discusses

the existing literature on the detection task, while Section 5 focuses on the characterization task. Section 6 summarizes

the main outstanding challenges and suggests promising directions of research. Finally, Section 7 concludes the survey.


2 CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK

The study of online coordination has its roots in the earlier studies of offline coordination. Recently, this study was

advanced both by commercial platforms and academia, with a large array of different proposals. This section examines

previously proposed definitions of coordination and discusses their advantages and limitations. Based on the results of

this analysis, we then propose a general definition and a comprehensive conceptual framework.


2.1  Offline coordination

Coordination has already been extensively studied well before the emergence of social media across disciplines such

as computer science, organization theory, management science, economics, and psychology [78, 119, 133]. Although

the meaning of coordination is intuitive, researchers suggested many definitions to frame the concept. A concise and

precise definition was given in [76]:

  Definition 2.1. Coordination (1988):  The additional information processing performed when multiple, connected actors pursue

   goals that a single actor pursuing the same goals would not perform [76].

Definition 2.1 denotes coordination as the organizational overhead that multiple actors incur into when pursuing goals

together. We note that this and similar definitions [9, 10, 75, 78] implicitly leverage the fundamental components of

coordination, which we explicitly define as follows:

  Definition 2.2. Coordination components: A set of two or more actors who perform activities in order to achieve goals.

Definition 2.2 introduces the fundamental components of coordination: actors, activities, and goals. Being coordination
a nuanced concept, the theoretical modeling of these components can have major implications on downstream analyses

and results. For example, in the case of communities or groups of users, each user in the group can be treated as a

standalone actor, or alternatively the entire group may be considered as a single actor. Similar choices must be made

1https://www.scimagojr.com
2https://portal.core.edu.au/conf-ranks/

Manuscript submitted to ACM
