10                                                                                 Mannocci et al.


democratic ideals, social justice, and human rights. These examples highlight the difference between authenticity and

harmfulness, which represent two orthogonal dimensions of coordinated online behavior.

2.5.2  Harmfulness. Harmfulness refers to the negative impact, consequences, or outcomes—both online and offline—
resulting from the coordinated actions of the actors. As discussed in Section 2.4.3, harmfulness depends both on the

shared intent and actions of the actors engaged in coordination, and on the viewpoint of the observer, constituting a

much more conceptually intricate dimension of online coordination than authenticity. However, in spite of the inherent

subjectivity, there exist many clear cut cases of harmful and harmless coordination. For example, coordinated actors

involved in the spread of disinformation, hate speech, and online harassment, represent straightforward cases of harmful

coordination [18, 99]. In contrast, users who coordinate to collect and share information and other resources, such as in

the aftermath of mass emergencies, represent cases of harmless coordination [73, 100, 102].

2.5.3   Orchestration. Orchestration represents the degree of planning and organization between the coordinated actors.
This dimension is closely linked to the intent of the actors, in that highly orchestrated campaigns typically imply

shared intent and goals between the participants. The orchestration of a coordinated campaign can be centralized or

distributed. In centralized orchestration, a single actor or entity exercises control and coordination over the actions

of all other actors involved in the coordinated behavior. This centralized authority dictates the timing, content, and

strategy of the coordinated actions, allowing for tight coordination and synchronization. An example of strong and

centralized orchestration is the coordinated behavior exhibited by social botnets, where large groups of automated

accounts quasi-simultaneously perform predefined actions depending on the command of a botmaster entity [82]. In

decentralized orchestration, coordination and control are distributed among multiple actors within a network, without

a single central authority dictating the actions of all participants. Actors may self-organize, collaborate, or communicate

autonomously, often guided by shared goals, interests, or ideologies. For instance, in January 2021, retail investors

coordinated on Reddit to target short-selling activity by hedge funds on GameStop shares, causing a surge in the share

price and triggering significant losses for the funds involved [68]. Instead, non-orchestrated coordinated behavior

occurs when the actions of multiple actors spontaneously converge around a given topic, narrative, or activity. Certain

viral social media trends are an example of non-orchestrated coordination emerging from the widespread adoption of a

particular hashtag or activity that occurs organically as many users observe and emulate others’ behavior [126].

2.5.4  Time-variance. Time-variance refers to the temporal characteristics and the dynamic nature of coordinated online
behavior. It grasps possible changes in the types, timing, frequency, and intensity of the actions, which in turn may

reflect changes in the intent of the actors, as well as adaptations or responses to external stimuli. Examples of largely

static coordinated behavior are the activities of some spammers and bots, who repeatedly perform the same actions

adhering to a fixed pattern without much adaptation or variation [25, 102]. Conversely, many information operations

are dynamic and time-varying, presenting different characteristics at different points in time. Among the changing

characteristics are the types of actors involved in the coordination (e.g., whether automated or human-operated) or

the topics of discussion [125, 138]. Time-variance also strongly depends on the duration of the coordinated behavior

itself. Actors involved in certain state-sponsored disinformation campaigns operate on online platforms for extended

periods, spanning years or even decades [138]. Over such lengthy time frames, the actors adapt their tactics, narratives,

and targets in response to shifts in intent, changes in technology and platforms, or advancements in countermeasures.

This extended duration implies a relatively gradual and nuanced evolution of the coordinated behavior. Conversely,

other forms of online coordination rely on expendable or disposable accounts created for short-lived and fast-paced

Manuscript submitted to ACM
