14                                                                                 Mannocci et al.

       1: user selection             2: network construction            3: network filtering              4: community discovery





Fig. 7. Main steps of the network science methods for the detection of coordinated online behavior. 1: The selected users become
nodes in a network. 2: User similarities are computed with a similarity function and assigned to the edge weights of the network. 3:
The network is filtered so as to retain only similarities with given properties. 4: Community discovery is performed to detect groups
of strongly coordinated users.

of the phenomenon. In fact, the output of characterization task can also be leveraged to validate the output of the

detection task, as in those frequent cases when a ground-truth of coordinated users is unavailable.


4  DETECTION OF COORDINATED BEHAVIOR

Coordination detection methods can be classified into two main categories depending on their underlying approach:

network science or machine learning. The following sections discuss the existing solutions in each category.


4.1  Network science methods

Network science coordination detection methods build a network of users or posts, where the links between the nodes

in the network represent the presence, and possibly also the extent [100], of coordination. In spite of the existing
differences, all methods in this category carry out the sequence of steps shown in Figure 7, namely: (i) user selection, (ii)
coordination network construction, (iii) network filtering, and (iv) community discovery. We now discuss the objective
and the implementation options available for each step.

4.1.1  User selection. This step selects an initial subset 𝑈′ ⊆𝑈of users according to some criteria that depend on the
purpose of the analysis. This initial selection is motivated by the observation that a small fraction of users accounts for

the majority of actions on a social network [100], especially those associated with harmful behaviors [111]. Selecting a

subset of users also has the positive consequence of reducing the computational cost of the subsequent steps, which

can easily become time- and computation-intensive for large networks [21].

   Implementation. Multiple choices can be made to select a subset of relevant users. A common choice is to select
the most active users as they produce the largest share of actions and content. Most active users can be defined as
those who publish a large number of original posts (super-producers) [64, 72, 103], or as those having a large number
of re-shares (super-spreaders) [19, 30, 51, 66, 67, 90, 100, 128]. Other than activity, network centrality or influence,
suspicious behavior, location, and timings are used for user selection [70]. Furthermore, many other general criteria can

also be adopted, such as selecting all users who posted certain keywords, or all followers of a given user. Combining

multiple criteria allows for even more fine-grained user selections.

4.1.2  Coordination network construction. This step builds a coordination network between the users 𝑈′ ⊆𝑈previously
selected.5 A coordination network is a type of network where links exist only between coordinated nodes. As per

Definition 2.11, coordination implies synergic actions between users. In network science methods, this concept is
operationalized with co-actions. A co-action represents two users performing the same action on the same target

5A few works follow the general approach of network science methods, but build networks of content rather than users. These are discussed in Section 4.1.5.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
