Detection and Characterization of Coordinated Online Behavior: A Survey                                    5


when modeling the activities that allow actors to coordinate. Each actor typically performs multiple activities during

any given time frame, and each of these activities might contribute differently to the overall coordination. Therefore,

the choice of activities to model during an analysis directly impacts the resulting observed coordination [77]. Finally,

the analyst is often interested in knowing the goal that the actors pursue when performing the activities. However, the

actors may not all have the same goal, or even have any explicit goal at all [76]. These reflections on the components of

coordination surface some of the challenges that early scholars faced since the 80s when studying offline coordination.

Interestingly, many of these challenges carry over to the study of online coordination, informing the development of a

new comprehensive definition and conceptual framework.



2.2  Concepts and definitions by online platforms

Beginning around 2016, mounting societal pressure impelled major social media platforms to confront pervasive

challenges such as the organized dissemination of mis- and disinformation [143]. In consequence of this pressure,

each platform adopted disclosure practices to communicate their results at exposing orchestrated deceptive activities

perpetrated by organized actors. Given the importance of coordination for the success of large-scale disinformation

campaigns [100, 103], within these public disclosure initiatives each platform addressed some instances of malicious

online coordination. This section explores the concepts and definitions introduced by major social media platforms that

are related to online coordination, discussing both their merits and limitations.


2.2.1  Meta (Facebook, Instagram, Threads). After the public disclosure that the Internet Research Agency (IRA) had
strategically exploited the platform to influence the 2016 US presidential election [118, 146, 155], Facebook began

publishing reports detailing how their services were abused and the actions taken in response. In unveiling further
actions against the IRA, in July 2018 Facebook introduced the concept of coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB) [35].
A few months later, they supplied it with a first definition, and in October 2019 with a second one. These definitions,

originally introduced by Facebook, also applied to Instagram due to their shared ownership. Then they have been

extended across Meta’s platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, and Threads.

  Definition 2.3. Coordinated inauthentic behavior (2018):  Groups of pages or people working together to mislead others on

  who they are or what they are doing [35].

   Definition 2.4. Coordinated inauthentic behavior (2019):  The use of multiple Facebook or Instagram assets (accounts, pages,

   groups, or events), working in concert to engage in inauthentic behavior, i.e., to mislead people or Facebook, where the use of fake

   accounts is central to the operation [37].

Definition 2.3 underscores the collaborative nature of disinformation campaigns [125], emphasizing the objective

of misleading others about the purported identity of the involved actors. To this end, it introduces the concept of
inauthenticity of the actors, which is ever since often used in conjunction with the notion of coordination. Definition 2.4
explicitly articulates the concept of inauthenticity and elucidates that the act of deceiving others involves the extensive

use of fake accounts [36]. A widespread critique of these initial definitions is that they exclusively address CIB,

overlooking other types of malicious and possibly harmful coordination, let alone the neutral or benign ones [19, 44, 49,

100]. In September 2021, Facebook provided additional definitions focusing on harmfulness rather than inauthenticity.

   Definition 2.5. Coordinated social harm (2021):  Networks of primarily authentic users who organize to systematically violate

   policies to cause harm on or offthe platform [39].

                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
