Test
                                                                Train
                                                           RS   SA   TR  EG   SA/EG/AE   Other
                                                  RS          0.85   0.54   0.61   0.56      0.52      0.65
                                               SA          0.55   0.76   0.53   0.63      0.74      0.68
                                               TR          0.61   0.60   0.74   0.63      0.65      0.68
                                             EG          0.43   0.37   0.36   0.65      0.38      0.39
                                                      SA/EG/AE   0.47   0.58   0.57   0.60      0.73      0.48
                                                                   Other        0.62   0.59   0.63   0.56      0.52     0 .74

                                                             Table 4: F1 scores obtained from same-campaign (diago-
                                                                 nal entries, in bold) and cross-campaign evaluations of the
                                                              tweet classifier. RS=Serbia, SA=Saudi Arabia, TR=Turkey,
                                                     EG=Egypt. SA/EG/AE = Saudi Arabia/Egypt/Arab Emi-
                                                                       rates is a campaign involving three countries.

Figure 7: Scores of tweet classifiers based on different
thresholds for the number of IO replies received by targeted                                                               values are obtained when the model trained on all data from
tweets.                                                       one campaign (optimized to maximize F1) is tested on other
                                                           campaigns. As expected, the models perform better when
                                                                   trained and tested on the same campaign. However, models
whether tweet-level engagement features would provide suf-      can generalize, with F1 drops that depend on the specific
ficient signals to discriminate between targeted and control      campaigns. This suggests that at least some commonalities
tweets. However, Table 3 indicates that tweet-level reply,       exist across coordinated reply campaigns.
like, and retweet counts do not provide very informative sig-
nals for tweet classification. To further explore this question,           RQ3: Replier Classification
let us measure the correlation between tweet-level features
(reply count, retweet count, and like count)     Once we identify potentially targeted tweets, we can attempt
                                                                     to detect, among the accounts that reply to them, those thatand the corresponding reply-level engagement counts. As
                                                                 are engaged in coordinated activity. Distinguishing authen-each original tweet can have many replies, there are many
                                                                                tic replies from inauthentic ones poses a non-trivial chal-more replies than original tweets. We therefore calculate
                                                                  lenge, given that inauthentic accounts attempt to create anthe mean correlation between pairs of tweet/reply engage-
                                                             impression of authenticity. For this task, we train a super-ment features across 10 random samples of replies matching
                                                               vised replier classifier using the targeted tweet dataset.the number of original tweets. The correlations are all very
small (around 0.001), confirming that reply engagement is
not a mere reflection of tweet popularity.                        Classifier Features
  We previously defined targeted tweets as those that re-    We engineer features for each replier from their profile meta-
ceive five or more replies from IO accounts. Let us test the       data and their replies to the targeted tweets. Starting with
robustness of our classifier with respect to this definition by       profile metadata, we calculate the age of repliers by subtract-
considering a range of threshold values between five and 20      ing the account creation date from the date of the last reply
replies from IO accounts. This filters down the set of tar-     by the account. As illustrated in Fig. 8(A), most IO repli-
geted tweets and corresponding control tweets. We follow       ers are relatively new accounts, with a median age of 0.37
the same procedure described above to construct the classi-      years compared to 2.08 years for normal repliers. Despite
fication dataset, extract the features, and train and evaluate       their relatively young age, IO repliers display a higher me-
the classifier. Fig. 7 reports the mean precision, recall, F1,      dian number of followers (282) and followings (380) com-
and AUC from 10-fold cross-validation. While we observe      pared to normal repliers, whose medians are 114 and 292,
slight increases as the criterion for defining targeted tweets       respectively (Figure 8(B, C)). However, IO repliers exhibit
becomes more stringent, the results appear to be robust with      lower activity levels (original tweets + replies + quotes +
respect to this parameter.                                           retweets), with a median of 699 compared to 4406 for nor-
  Next, let us evaluate the generality of the classifier by test-     mal repliers (Figure 8(D)).
ing how well a model trained on one campaign performs       To leverage these key differences between IO and nor-
when tested on other campaigns. First, we split the classifi-     mal repliers, we create four features specific to profile meta-
cation dataset into six subsets: one for each of the top five       data: age, follower rate, following rate, and
campaigns, based on the number of targeted tweets, and one     activity rate. Since the numbers of followers/follow-
with data aggregated from the remaining campaigns. Sec-      ing and the activity are correlated with an account’s age, we
ond, we train campaign-specific models on each of these      normalize the rate features by the age of the account.
datasets, as in the original tweet classification setup. Finally,       Each replier may be involved in one or more replies to
we evaluate the models on test data from each dataset. In the      multiple targeted tweets. Therefore, we create a number
diagonal of Table 4 we report F1 values when the model       of features that summarize the characteristics of the set of
trained on one campaign is tested on the same campaign       replies generated by each replier, including replies to multi-
(mean across 10-fold cross-validation). The off-diagonal F1       ple targeted tweets. These features are based on eight reply


                                                   1592
