Figure 9: Permutation feature importance for replier clas-
                                                                                     sifier. We report the median (orange line), 50% confidence
                                                                      interval (box), and 99.3% confidence interval (whiskers) of
                                                                 the drop in F1 score when each feature/attribute is shuffled.
                                                      Boxes with the same color indicate attributes in the same
                                                                   feature set. Larger values indicate higher importance.

Figure 8: Differences between complementary cumulative
distributions of IO and normal replier metadata: (A) age,
(B) following count, (C) follower count, and (D) activ-      balance leads to poor classification, which can be addressed
ity, as measured by the sum of the numbers of original       in two ways. First, we downsampled the normal repliers by
tweets, replies, quotes, and retweets. The distributions are       creating 10 different balanced datasets. Each includes all the
significantly different in all cases according to Kolmogorov-     IO repliers and an equal number (7,670) of normal repliers,
Smirnov tests (p < 10−6).                                  sampled without replacement. We train and test the model on
                                                          each balanced dataset using 10-fold cross-validation and re-
                                                                  port the average performance score. As a second approach,
attributes, which we organize into four sets, just like those     we over sampled the IO repliers by splitting the data into
listed in Table 1. The only criterion that distinguishes how       train and test sets, then replicating the minority class. Repli-
these features are calculated in the tweet versus the replier       cation occurs only in the training data, to avoid data leakage.
classification task is the reply set — all replies to a tweet in    We run 10-fold cross-validation on the resulting dataset. The
the former case and all replies by a replier in the latter.               first approach might eliminate some potential false positives
  Given a set of replies, the replier classifier features are   — normal repliers with similar reply behavior — potentially
calculated as for the tweet classifier, with two exceptions.     making the task easier. In the second approach, the model is
First, the delay of each reply is computed with respect to the       tested on data that still maintains the class imbalance, po-
timestamp of the targeted tweet to which the reply was di-       tentially overfitting the training data. This approach is also
rected. Second, cosine similarity s for replier i is calculated     more expensive due to the large dataset. Given these comple-
for each pair (rti, rtj) where rti is a reply by i to a targeted      mentary disadvantages, below we report on both methods.
tweet t and rtj is a reply by a different user j to the same      We standardize the features with z-scores and report the
targeted tweet t. We obtain a distribution of these similar-     mean performance metrics obtained by different machine
ities ∪t∈T (i) ∪j∈J(t) s(rti, rtj) across the set J(t) of other       learning models: Logistic Regression, Random Forest, Ad-
users who reply to t and then across the set T(i) of targeted      aBoost, Decision Tree, and Naive Bayes. As in the tweet
tweets that receive a reply from i.                                       classifier, we tune the threshold to maximize the mean F1
  From the distribution of each attribute, we compute nine       across folds. Table 5 shows that all classifiers perform better
summary statistic features: range, 25/50/75 quartiles, inter-      with downsampling, and Random Forest (with 100 estimator
quartile range, maximum, minimum, mean, and entropy. We       trees) performs the best with both downsampling and over-
do not calculate standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis      sampling. Therefore, let us focus on this model — Random
because they are not defined for many repliers who are in-       Forest trained with downsampling — for further analysis.
volved in a single reply to a single targeted tweet.               To test the contribution of each feature to the replier clas-
  We end up with four profile metadata features and 8×9 =         sifier, we follow the same procedure as for the tweet clas-
72 reply-level features, for a total of 76 features.                       sifier. However, here we report the averages across the 10
                                                            balanced dataset. Table 6 reports on mean 10-fold cross-
Results                                                                   validation scores for Random Forest trained and tested on
The targeted tweet dataset is highly imbalanced with 0.8%      each profile metadata feature and reply feature set. Fig. 9
IO repliers (7,670 vs. 874,248 normal repliers). Such an im-       reports on the results of a permutation feature importance


                                                   1593
