Data Collection

For the present study of coordinated reply attacks, we use 43
different state-sponsored IO datasets released by the Twit-
ter Moderation Research Consortium from October 2018 to
December 2021.2 These datasets are archives of suspended
accounts that Twitter claims to have been involved in foreign
influence operations. Along with the account metadata, the
datasets provide all the tweets generated by the accounts.
  Since according to Twitter the campaigns in these datasets
are coordinated by a single entity, they provide us with
ground truth for our study. Indeed,  if we observe mass
replies to a single target from multiple accounts labeled by
Twitter as coordinated, we can establish that the coordinated      Figure 1: Data collection for the classifiers. The dashed line
reply attack tactic has been used.                                separated the last IO reply and the first successive tweet by
                                                                 the target.
Target Dataset
First, we merge the datasets of all the IOs and keep all the      Classification Dataset
replies by IO accounts to tweets by non-IO accounts. We
                                                    To identify tweets targeted by coordinated replies (RQ2) andrefer to the latter accounts as targets and to the replies by
                                                             accounts that participate in such activity (RQ3), we considerIO accounts as IO replies. There are in total 17,873,714 IO
                                                                   targeted tweets as our positive examples. For correspondingreplies from 44,425 IO accounts targeting 15,256,547 tweets
                                                                negative examples, we collect control tweets posted by theby 1,763,084 distinct targets. From this data, we extract
                                                    same targets after the last IO reply. This ensures that the15,016 targets and 96,041 tweets that received five or more
                                                               tweets in our control data did not receive any coordinateddirect replies from IO accounts. We assume these tweets
                                                                      replies by IO accounts. Fig. 1 illustrates the data collection.have been targeted by coordinated reply attacks, and we la-
                                                  As in the case of positive examples, we only retain con-bel them as targeted tweets. The threshold of five or more
                                                                             trol tweets with five or more replies. In addition, to avoidreplies is arbitrary; a robustness analysis shows that the de-
                                                                  bias due to the diverse activity of the targets, we collecttection of targeted tweets does not seem to be affected by
                                                       from each target as many control tweets as targeted tweets.this parameter, as discussed later (Fig. 7).
                                                                       Specifically, we select control tweets that were posted im-
  The targeted tweets can still be publicly available at the
                                                             mediately after the last IO reply, subject to the five-reply
time of our analysis, allowing us to collect all of their replies.
                                                   minimum. In cases where we could not obtain as many con-
Some of these replies may have originated from non-IO
                                                                             trol tweets as targeted tweets, we ensure a balanced dataset
repliers, both before and after the IO accounts were taken
                                                     by keeping the most recent targeted tweets.
down by Twitter. We refer to these replies as normal replies
                                                                  Similar to the targeted tweets, we fetch all the replies to
and to their authors as normal repliers. Since we only have
                                                                 the control tweets and all replier metadata. The resulting
direct replies by IO accounts, we only consider direct replies
                                                                       classification dataset includes 3,866 targeted tweets and the
by normal repliers as well; replies to replies are discarded.
                                                    same number of control tweets by 1,507 targets. The drop
In addition to the metadata about the IO replies that are
                                                                     in the number of tweets compared to the target dataset is
present in the initial data, we query the /users/:id,
                                                       due to the various constraints outlined above: authors with
/search/all, and /tweets/?ids= endpoints of the
                                                                 deleted or suspended accounts, or with no original tweets af-Twitter API3 to collect metadata about the targets, the tar-
                                                                            ter the IO, were removed; only original tweets with at least
geted tweets, their normal replies, and the normal repliers.
                                                                         five replies were considered; and original (targeted or con-
We collected this information in April 2023.
                                                                             trol) tweets were removed due to balancing. There are in to-
  Among the 15,016 targets, 5,041 were suspended, 3,992                                                                                tal 881,918 and 323,378 repliers in the positive and negative
could not be found (possibly deleted accounts), and 5,983                                                            examples, respectively. These include IO and normal repli-
were alive at analysis time (2,031 verified and 3,952 non-                                                                           ers. While the full classification dataset is used for RQ2, for
verified accounts). Of the  total 96,041 targeted tweets,                                        RQ3 we only use the positive examples (targeted tweets):
43,048 could not be found, which means these tweets could                                                           7,670 IO repliers and 874,248 normal repliers.
have originated from deleted or suspended accounts; 18,808
had unauthorized access; and 34,185 were accessible. For                                              RQ1: Targets and Topics
our influence operation case studies (RQ1), we consider this
target dataset of 34,185 tweets by 5,983 targets.                  In this section, we present an exploratory analysis of the tar-
                                                                  gets of coordinated reply attacks and two case studies of spe-
   2IO datasets were available at transparency.x.com/en/reports/        cific campaigns where we can analyze the targets as well as
moderation-research until summer 2024. An archival version of       the topics of their targeted tweets and other tactics employed
the site is available at web.archive.org/web/20240829231920/https:       in the campaigns.
//transparency.x.com/en/reports/moderation-research.                   Exploratory analysis of target metadata (Fig. 2a) shows
    3developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/                           that targets tend to have more followers (median 22,540)


                                                   1588
