Set           Attributes
                                                                      like count
                                                                       Engagement  retweet count
                                                                      reply count
                                                                      mention count
                                                                                             Entities     hashtag count
                                                                      url count
                                                                          Delay       reply time diff
                                                                                         Similarity    cosine

                                                             Table 1: Reply-level attributes used to generate features for
                                                                 the tweet classifier.


Figure 4: Characterization of the Egypt campaign. Distribu-       ing, while inauthentic activity mainly focused on manipu-
tions of (A) countries and (B) professions of the targets. (C)       lating conversations through replies. Based on these obser-
Wordshift graph comparing the most frequent words in tar-       vations, we use three tweet-level features: reply count,
geted and non-targeted tweets.                        retweet count, and like count.
                                                               Next, let us consider reply-level features. These are based
                                                     on eight attributes, listed in Table 1. Engagement and en-
state officials (29) were again the main targets of the co-        tity attributes are defined for each reply. The delay is also
ordinated replies (Fig. 4b). The analysis of common terms       defined, for each reply, as the difference between the times-
in the targeted tweets (Fig. 4c) and manual inspection re-      tamps of the tweet and the reply. The similarity is designed
veal that the Egypt campaign primarily focused on religious       to capture the presence of similar narratives in replies, a
themes, terrorism, and current affairs like the Iran Nuclear     common characteristic of inauthentic engagement. To this
deal (2018), Yemen’s Houthi movement, Sudan’s military      end, we first generate vector embeddings for the replies us-
coup, and the Muslim Brotherhood. These observations are      ing the LaBSE model (Feng et al. 2020), which supports 109
consistent with a report by DiResta, Kheradpir, and Miller      languages. The cosine attribute is then computed for each
(2020), describing an IO activity orchestrated by Egypt and       pair of replies to the same tweet as the cosine similarity be-
the UAE, supporting the Saudi and Egyptian governments      tween the corresponding vectors.
and criticizing Qatar, Turkey, Yemen, Iran.                        Since targeted tweets can have many replies, this proce-
  Both case studies indicate that influential people like jour-      dure yields many attribute values that must be aggregated
nalists, news media, state officials, and politicians, are the       to obtain a set of features for each tweet. In the case of en-
primary targets of coordinated reply attacks. These targets      gagement, entities, and delay attributes, we have one value
can be from different countries than the campaign’s country      per reply. For the similarity attribute, we have one value
of origin. The topics of the targeted tweets depend on the      per a pair of replies. In all cases, we aggregate these val-
current affairs of the specific geographic region or country.       ues to obtain a single distribution of attribute values for each
                                                                  tweet. From these distributions we compute the following 12
        RQ2: Tweet Classification               summary statistic features: range, 25/50/75 quartiles, inter-
                                                                      quartile range, minimum, maximum, mean, standard devia-Identifying the tweets that receive inauthentic coordinated
                                                                          tion, skewness, kurtosis, and entropy. Since we do this forreplies  is a necessary  first step toward the detection of
                                                          each of eight attributes, the total number of reply-level fea-both the targets and the perpetrators of a coordinated at-
                                                                     tures used in the classifier is 8×12 = 96. Including the threetack. To address this challenge, we propose a campaign-
                                                                   tweet-level features, the classifier uses a total of 99 features.independent classifier for identifying IO-targeted tweets.
The same methodology could also be generalized to plat-
                                                       Resultsforms other than Twitter.
                                         We compare different machine learning models: Logistic
Classifier Features                                          Regression, Random Forest, AdaBoost, Decision Tree, and
The tweet  classifier leverages several features extracted      Naive Bayes. Prior to training, we standardize the input fea-
from tweets and from the replies they receive. Let us first       tures via z-scores. We conduct 10-fold cross-validation to
focus on tweet-level features, specifically tweet engage-       mitigate over-fitting of the training data and report on the
ment. We find a few key differences between the engage-     mean precision, recall, and F1 values across folds along with
ment metrics of IO-targeted vs. control tweets. As illus-    AUC in Table 2. Precision, recall, and F1 depend on a thresh-
trated in Fig. 5a, IO-targeted tweets receive more replies      old to transform the model score into a binary classification
(median 31 vs. 22 for control tweets). On the other hand,       label. We tune the threshold to maximize the mean F1 across
control tweets receive slightly more retweets (median 84       folds. In the following, we focus on Random Forest (with
vs. 75 for IO-targeted tweets, Fig. 5b) and more likes (me-     100 estimator trees), which yields the best scores overall.
dian 420 vs. 250, Fig. 5c). This suggests that organic en-       To study the contributions of different features, we fol-
gagement generated more positive interactions and shar-      lowed two approaches. First, we trained and tested Random


                                                   1590
