Figure 3: Characterization of the Serbia campaign. Distribu-
                                                                     tions of (A) countries and (B) professions of the targets. BiH
                                               = Bosnia and Herzegovina, NA = Not Available (C) Word-
                                                                           shift graph comparing the most frequent words in targeted
                                                       and non-targeted tweets. The top bar represents the cumula-
                                                                         tive contribution of each type of word shift.
Figure 2: Complementary cumulative distribution functions
(CCDF) of statistics describing target accounts and their
tweets. (A) Numbers of followers and following (friends) of     we report the top 10 target professions/types and countries.
targets. (B) Number of targeted tweets per target. (C) Num-    We also inspected the targeted tweets to understand the con-
ber of coordinated replies received by each targeted tweet.       text of the attacks. In preprocessing, we used Google Trans-
(D) Time delay between targeted tweets and their coordi-        late to translate the targeted tweets into English and removed
nated replies.                                                   stop words and emojis.

                                                    Case Study: Serbia.  The majority of accounts targeted by
                                                                 the Serbia campaign, approximately 648, were from Serbiathan following (median 707). This suggests that targets can
                                                                                   itself, with the remaining coming from the Balkan regionbe influential people. Reply attacks tend to be selective
                                                                      (Fig. 3a). This suggests that the campaign focused its ef-(Fig. 2b): only a few tweets by each target were targeted
                                                                         forts on influencing public opinion within Serbia. Fig. 3b(median one). The median number of coordinated replies re-
                                                                   reveals that the coordinated reply attacks primarily targetedceived by targeted tweets was eight (Fig. 2c). Coordinated
                                                                      journalists (102), state officials (99), news media organi-replies tend to occur quickly after a targeted tweet, with a
                                                                  zations (76), and politicians (43). A wordshift graph (Gal-median delay of 3 hours (Fig. 2d). However, these distri-
                                                                lagher et al. 2021) highlighting the most prominent termsbutions are broad. For example, 54 of the targeted tweets
                                                                     in the targeted tweets (Fig. 3c) shows that the campaignreceived more than 1,000 replies.
                                                            focused on President Vucic, the Serbian Progressive Party
  The above statistics are merely descriptive, as we lack a
                                                          (SNS), the 2017 election, the “1 out of 5 Millions” protest,
reference model to interpret how targeted users differ from
                                                       and the Serbia-Kosovo diplomatic crisis. These findings are
the general population of Twitter users. To better understand
                                                                   consistent with analysis by Bush (2020), who reported that
what kinds of accounts were targeted, one of the authors
                                                                 the primary objective of IO actors involved in the Serbia
annotated some target profiles with the corresponding pro-
                                                       campaign was to rally support for President Alexander Vu-
fessions or organization types and country of origin. We
                                                                     cic and his party, the SNS. This was achieved by promoting
used manual annotation by checking each Twitter profile,
                                                                 the popularity and visibility of Vucic and the SNS through
description, the profession metadata indicated by the ‘brief-
                                                               retweeting their content and replying to other accounts with
case icon,’ and by searching Google for the accounts with
                                                                supportive messages. The IO accounts also targeted oppo-
more than a million followers. We grouped profession and
                                                              nent political parties with derisive tweets and attempted to
organization types into broad categories, such as state of-
                                                                      discredit them by flooding their posts with negative com-
ficials, news media, and politicians. Accounts with insuffi-
                                                             ments. This tactic aimed to create a public perception that
cient information were labeled ‘Not Available.’
                                                                 the opposition was unpopular.
  As the annotation process was time-consuming, we fo-
cused on two cases, namely two of the five campaigns with     Case Study: Egypt.   Fig. 4a shows that the majority of
the most targets: Serbia (the top campaign with 1,175 tar-      accounts targeted by the Egypt campaign were from mul-
gets) and Egypt (the fifth campaign with 372 targets). Ap-        tiple Middle East and North Africa countries, primarily
proximately 26% of the targeted accounts in the Serbia cam-      Saudi Arabia (74 targets), Egypt (39), UAE (36), Qatar
paign and 20% in the Egypt campaign did not have sufficient       (30), and Yemen (26). This suggests a potential interstate
information available. In the next subsections, for each case,       attack. News media organization (67), journalists (52), and


                                                   1589
