Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024





2.2 A TIGHT RISK LOWER BOUND

Next we show that the conformal risk control procedure is tight up to a factor 2B/(n+1) that cannot
be improved in general. The proof will rely on a form of continuity that generalizes the assumption
of continuous non-conformity scores used for the standard conformal proof. Define the jump func-
tion, which quantifies the size of the discontinuity in a right-continuous input function l at point λ, a
J(l, λ) = limϵ→0+ l(λ −ϵ) −l(λ). If the probability that Li has a discontinuity at any pre-specified
λ is P(J(Li, λ) > 0) = 0, then the conformal risk control procedure is not too conservative.
Theorem 2. In the setting of Theorem 1, further assume that the Li are i.i.d., Li ≥0, and for any
λ, P (J(Li, λ) > 0) = 0. Then

                     Eh                            Ln+1  ˆλ i ≥α − 2B                                      n + 1.

This bound is tight for general monotone loss functions, as we show next.
Proposition 1. In the setting of Theorem 2, for any ϵ > 0, there exists a loss function and α ∈(0, 1)
such that
                     E h                            Ln+1  ˆλ i ≤α −2B −ϵ .
                                      n + 1

Since we can take ϵ arbitrarily close to zero, the factor 2B/(n + 1) in Theorem 2 is required. Con-
formal prediction—both the algorithm and the guarantee—is exactly equivalent to conformal risk
control when the loss function is an indicator, including the tighter lower bound (see Appendix A).

2.3  CONTROLLING GENERAL LOSS FUNCTIONS

We next show that the conformal risk control algorithm does not control the risk if the Li are not
assumed to be monotone. In particular, (3) does not hold. We show this by example.
Proposition 2. For any ϵ, there exists a non-monotone loss function such that

                       E h                              Ln+1  ˆλ i ≥B −ϵ.


Notice that for any desired level α, the expectation in (3) can be arbitrarily close to B.  Since
the function values here are in [0, B], this means that even for bounded random variables, risk
control can be violated by an arbitrary amount—unless further assumptions are placed on the Li.
However, the algorithms developed may still be appropriate for near-monotone loss functions.
Simply ‘monotonizing’ all loss functions Li and running conformal risk control will guarantee (3),
but this strategy will only be powerful (i.e., not conservative) if the loss is near-monotone. For
concreteness, we describe this procedure below as a corollary of Theorem 1.
Corollary 1. Allow Li(λ) to be any (possibly non-monotone) function of λ satisfying 5. Take

                               n
                            1                      n        B
  ˜Li(λ) = sup Li(λ′),  ˜Rn(λ) = X ˜Li(λ) and ˜λ = inf  λ :      ˜Rn(λ) +    ≤α   .
          λ′≥λ             n                    n + 1       n + 1                                   i=1

Then,
                        E h                                Ln+1  ˜λ i ≤α.

If the loss function is already monotone, then ˜λ reduces to ˆλ. We propose a further algorithm for
picking λ in Appendix C that provides an asymptotic risk-control guarantee for non-monotone
loss functions. However, this algorithm again is only powerful when the risk E[Ln+1(λ)] is near-
monotone and reduces to the standard conformal risk control algorithm when the loss is monotone.

3  EXAMPLES

To demonstrate the flexibility and empirical effectiveness of the proposed algorithm, we apply it to
four tasks across computer vision and natural language processing. All four loss functions are non-
binary, monotone losses bounded by 1. They are commonly used within their respective application
domains. Our results validate that the procedure bounds the risk as desired and gives useful outputs


                                       4
