Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024



CONFORMAL RISK CONTROL

 Anastasios N. Angelopoulos1, Stephen Bates2, Adam Fisch2, Lihua Lei3, Tal Schuster4

 1UC Berkeley  2MIT   3Stanford   4Google Research


                         ABSTRACT

      We extend conformal prediction to control the expected value of any monotone
         loss function. The algorithm generalizes split conformal prediction together with
           its coverage guarantee.  Like conformal prediction, the conformal risk control
        procedure is tight up to an O(1/n) factor. We also introduce extensions of the idea
         to distribution shift, quantile risk control, multiple and adversarial risk control, and
         expectations of U-statistics. Worked examples from computer vision and natural
        language processing demonstrate the usage of our algorithm to bound the false
         negative rate, graph distance, and token-level F1-score.

1  INTRODUCTION

We seek to endow some pre-trained machine learning model with guarantees on its performance as
to ensure its safe deployment. Suppose we have a base model f that is a function mapping inputs
x ∈X to values in some other space, such as a probability distribution over classes. Our job is to
design a procedure that post-processes the output of f to give it a statistical safety property.

Split conformal prediction (Vovk et al., 2005; Papadopoulos et al., 2002), which we will refer to sim-
ply as “conformal prediction”, has been useful in areas such as computer vision (Angelopoulos et al.,
2021b) and natural language processing (Fisch et al., 2021) to provide such a guarantee. By measur-
                                                     n
ing the model’s performance on a calibration dataset  (Xi, Yi) i=1 of feature-response pairs, con-
formal prediction post-processes the model to construct prediction sets that bound the miscoverage,

                       P Yn+1 /∈C(Xn+1) ≤α,                                  (1)

where (Xn+1, Yn+1) is a new test point, α is a user-specified error rate (e.g., 10%), and C is a
function of the model and calibration data that outputs a prediction set. Note that C is formed using
the first n data points, and the probability in (1) is over the randomness in all n + 1 data points (i.e.,
the draw of both the calibration points 1, . . . , n and the test point n + 1).

In this work, we extend conformal prediction to prediction tasks where the natural notion of er-
ror is not simply miscoverage. In particular, our main result is that a generalization of conformal
prediction provides guarantees of the form
                     Eh ℓ Cλ(Xn+1), Yn+1 i ≤α,                                 (2)

for any bounded loss function ℓthat shrinks as Cλ(Xn+1) grows, and λ is an input parameter that
controls the growth of Cλ(Xn+1). We call this conformal risk control. Note that (2) recovers the
conformal miscoverage guarantee in (1) when using the miscoverage loss, ℓ Cλ(Xn+1), Yn+1) =
1 {Yn+1 /∈Cλ(Xn+1)}. However, our algorithm also extends conformal prediction to situations
where other loss functions, such as the false negative rate (FNR), are more appropriate.

As an example, consider multilabel classification, where the Yi ⊆{1, ..., K} are sets comprising
a subset of K classes. Creating sets that contain all the classes may be too conservative if K is
massive; instead, given a trained multilabel classifier f  : X →[0, 1]K, we want to output sets
that include a large fraction of the true classes in Yi. To that end, we post-process the model’s raw
outputs into the set of classes with sufficiently high scores, Cλ(x) = {k : f(X)k ≥1 −λ}, where
the main parameter of the algorithm λ ∈[0, 1] is a threshold. Note that as the threshold λ grows,
we include more classes in Cλ(x)—i.e., it becomes more conservative. In this case, conformal risk
control finds a threshold value ˆλ that controls the fraction of missed classes, i.e., the expected value


                                       1
