The Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI-24)

               Appendix                              representations and capturing high-order structural informa-
                                                                          tion.Related Work
                                      HGNN (Feng et al. 2018b) stands as the pioneering spa-
Macroscopic Diffusion Prediction  Previous studies can        tial approach that uncovers latent node representations by
be categorized into three main approaches: feature-based,      exploring high-order structural information within hyper-
generative process-based, and deep learning-based methods.       graphs. Hyper-Atten (Bai, Zhang, and Torr 2019) intro-
  Feature-based (Kong et al. 2014) approaches focus on ex-      duced an attention mechanism to hypergraphs, enhancing
tracting handcrafted features from the input data, which are       their learning capabilities. UniGNN (Huang and Yang 2021)
then used in machine learning algorithms for regression or      and HyperSAGE (Arya et al. 2020) take a direct message-
classification tasks. However, these methods heavily rely on      passing approach on hypergraphs to learn representations.
domain knowledge and lack generalizability.                     AllSet (Chien et al. 2021) has presented a powerful frame-
  Generative process-based approaches (Zhao et al. 2015)     work that unifies existing hypergraph learning methods.
model the arrival of infected users as a point process. While         In various fields like social networks (Sun et al. 2023),
these methods enhance interpretability, they may overlook      recommendation (Ding et al. 2023), and natural language
implicit information within the cascade dynamics.               processing (Xu et  al. 2023a), hypergraphs have demon-
  Recently, deep learning-based approaches have shown       strated their efficacy in tackling complex problems.
their effectiveness. For example, DeepCas (Li et al. 2016)
utilizes RNN to encode sampled sequences from social     Datasets
graphs and cascades. DeepHawkes (Cao et al. 2017) incor-
                                         We used four datasets, i.e. Christianity, Android, Doubanporates the Hawkes process within an RNN architecture.
                                                       and Memetracker, to conduct experiments.CoupledGNN (Cao et al. 2019) and CasCN (Chen et al.
                                                                Christianity (Sankar et al. 2020) consists of the user2019b) utilize GNNs to capture diffusion patterns across the
                                                                  friendship network and cascading interactions related tounderlying social network. VaCas (Zhou et al. 2020) com-
                                                                 Christian themes on Stack-Exchanges.bines graph wavelets, hierarchical variational autoencoders,
                                                      Android (Sankar et al. 2020) is collected from StackEx-and Bi-GRUs to learn the structures of cascade graphs.
                                                             changes, which is a community Q&A website. It includes
Microscopic Diffusion Prediction  Conventional methods       users’ interactions across different channels, which form
for microscopic diffusion prediction can be categorized into       their friendship relations.
three groups: independent cascade (IC)-model-based ap-       Douban (Zhong et al. 2012) is a Chinese social website
proaches, embedding-based approaches, and deep learning-      where users can update their book reading statuses and fol-
based approaches.                                       low the statuses of other users.
  IC-model-based approaches (Wang et al. 2014) assume       Memetracker  (Leskovec, Backstrom, and  Kleinberg
independent diffusion probabilities for user pairs and em-      2009) collects a million news stories and blog posts from
ploy Monte Carlo simulations to predict microscopic diffu-       online websites, tracking the most frequent memes to ana-
sion.                                                           lyze their migration among people. Each meme is consid-
  Embedding-based approaches (Feng et  al. 2018a) ex-      ered an informational entity, while individual website URLs
tend the IC model by representing each user as a parame-       are treated as representations of users in the analysis.
terized vector. They model diffusion probabilities between
users based on their embeddings, considering factors such      Baselines
as global user similarity. However, these methods overlook                                         We compare thirteen representative baseline models with
infection history.                                                            our models.
  Deep  learning  techniques  have  shown  promise  in                                                        Macroscopic prediction models:
modeling information diffusion. Approaches like TopoL-
                                                   DeepCas (Li et al. 2016) transforms the cascade graph
STM (Wang et  al. 2017) structure hidden states as di-
                                                                     into node sequences through random walks and learns rep-
rected acyclic graphs, while DeepDiffuse (Islam et al. 2018)
                                                                   resentations for each cascade using a deep learning frame-
and HiDAN (Wang and Li 2019) incorporate attention
                                                          work.
mechanisms to leverage infection timestamp information.
                                                  DeepHawkes (Cao et al. 2017) integrates an end-to-end
NDM (Yang et al. 2021) combines self-attention and CNNs,
                                                        deep learning technique into the Hawkes process for cascade
while Inf-VAE (Sankar et al. 2020) integrates a VAE frame-
                                                                    prediction.
work to capture social homophily and temporal influence.
                                             CasCN (Chen et al. 2019b) applies GCN to capture theSNIDSA (Wang, Chen, and Li 2018) and DyHGCN (Yuan
                                                                     structures of information diffusion and uses LSTM to learnet al. 2020) utilize diffusion paths, social networks, and tem-
                                                                 inherent dependencies between users’ retweeting behaviorsporal information for prediction. Furthermore, methods like
                                                                     in sequential cascade information.MS-HGAT (Sun et al. 2022) and HyperINF (Jin et al. 2022)
                                                    CasFlow (Xu et al. 2023b) leverages normalizing flowsleverage hypergraphs to learn global user dependencies.
                                                                     to learn node-level and cascade-level latent factors, enabling
Hypergraph Neural Network  Hypergraph offers a nat-       hierarchical pattern learning of information diffusion.
ural way to represent group relations by connecting enti-       TCSE-net (Wu et  al. 2022) preserves distinguishable
ties through hyperedges. Recently, several approaches have       structure patterns and eliminates potential noise by aligning
emerged to leverage hypergraphs for learning latent node      and fusing temporal popularity and cascade information.





                                                   8578
