Previous research
       datasets

  DeBot (from API)              Twitter                   User          Proﬁle                                   Full        Sub-Sampling
                           User IDs                   Proﬁles       Features                          Dataset
   Public Research
                                                                                     General user      Datasets
                                                                                                 features
   Journalist attack                                                                                  (30)
      Datasets                                       User          Tweet
  Real User Dataset                                  Tweets        Features                               Dataset         Dataset
    (Through BFS)                                                                         C30K          C500
                                            Twitter API

                                              Figure 1: Data collection strategy.


so far in the literature.                                         fake followers from different fake follower services (Q) fast-
  While most of the datasets have high percentage of bot ac-    followerz, (S) intertwitter, and (T) twittertechnology. All these
counts associated with them, a few might have small amounts    datasets are used as ground truth.
of false positives in them. This is a trade-off that needs to be
                                                            Traditional spambots. Datasets H and I are traditional spam
made to avoid inducing bias by ﬁltering these datasets before
                                                          campaigns, pushing links to scam sites. Unfortunately the for-
classiﬁcation. Do note that we are only reporting the number
                                                   mer dataset was unavailable for collection, due to all but one
of accounts that, at collection time, had not been suspended
                                                               of its accounts being suspended. Datasets K and J are both
by Twitter or marked as private. This is because suspension or
                                                          groups of accounts spamming job offers.  All these datasets
marking an account as private prevents us from collecting any
                                                      were used in [12], while H was also used in [40].
of its information.
  Many of these datasets were obtained from past papers ei-    Social spambots. Social spambots are a relatively new breed
ther from authors or directly querying each of the user IDs in    of bots which are better described in [12]. In summary, Social
them against the Twitter API. Some of them come from an   spambots have evolved to accurately mimic the characteristics
API themselves, and a couple of extra ones are not related to    of real users, making them very difﬁcult to identify. Dataset
research, but the result of botnet attacks on two journalists and   F are retweeters of an Italian political candidate. Dataset E
their own listing of the IDs that were involved in those attacks.    consists of spammers of paid apps for mobile devices. Finally,
A summary of these datasets is presented in Table 1. Overall,    dataset G is made of spammers of products on sale at Ama-
what follows is how we aggregated one of the largest and most   zon.com.
varied bot datasets in research.
                                                   Honeypot bots.  Dataset V consists of bots collected using
The Star Wars Bots. Dataset A consists of bot accounts that   honeypot accounts. A honeypot account is a fake account con-
tweet exclusively quotes from Star Wars novels.  It was re-    trolled by a researcher. The interactions with the account are
ported by [18]. The Star Wars bots all share characteristics    logged, assuming they can only come from malicious accounts
like a creation period, id range and small numbers of friends    since the honeypot account is fake and generally inactive. This
and followers. This dataset consists of over 355,000 accounts.    dataset was made available through the DARPA twitter bot
The Bursty Bots. The Bursty Bots is a botnet created on Twit-    challenge [34]. It is used as ground truth in that competition.
ter with the objective of enticing users into blacklisted sites                                                             Journalist attack bots.  In August 2017, journalists Brian
[17, 3].  It’s strategy was simple by using a mention and a
                                                       Krebs and Ben Nimmo were subject to an attack by twitter
shortened or obfuscated URL. They share some characteris-                                                                     bots. They logged some of the bots and published a dataset 1.
tics like having zero friends and followers, and only a few
                                        We collected the accounts from these two datasets and added
tweets created immediately after account creation, only to re-                                                     them to our bot datasets as datasets W (the attack on Brian
main completely silent afterwards. This dataset B consists of                                                          Krebs) and X (the attack on Ben Nimmo). These datasets are
over 500,000 accounts.
                                                              not used as ground truth and, to the best of our knowledge,
DeBot. Debot is a bot detection service that generates daily   have not been used in research before.
reports of bot activity, and stems from the work of [10][9].
                                         Human Annotated Bots. Datasets L,M,N and O have beenIt comes with an API which we were able to query to obtain
                                                               identiﬁed by humans as bots, and were used as ground truth inover 700,000 accounts that the service detected as bots. This
                                                                     [21]. They were divided by the amount of followers that thedataset C is unique in our list, as it is actually the result of a
                                                               bots have. The bands in which they are divided are 900-1100detection strategy, and not either ground truth or a single bot-
                                                                followers(L), 90k to 110k followers(M), 900k to 1m follow-net. The main feature that DeBot detection exploits is warped
                                                                  ers(N), and over 9m followers(O). Noticeably, the intermedi-correlation in the tweet timing of different accounts.
                                                                    ate groups with different numbers of followers were not avail-
Fake Followers. We explore different fake follower datasets                                                               able for collection.
that have been used in various research studies. Dataset D is
used in [12] and is just described as being fake followers. In
contrast, datasets Q-T are described in [11] as being purchased     1https://krebsonsecurity.com/tag/twitter-bots/


                                                   3
