strate that even this bot-detection system that has been trained   show that these techniques can be gamed by adversaries by
with a variety of bots is incapable of detecting new bot fam-    exploiting the temporal dynamics used for detection.
ilies that were never observed before. In fact, some “target”      Other approaches leverage bots’ similarity in their opera-
botnets completely mislead the classiﬁer resulting to less than    tion, such as synchronization in posting messages [8], accesses
1% detection accuracy, meaning 99% of the bots in that class   by a common set of IP addresses [23, 32], or similar uses of the
were classiﬁed as users.                                      accounts [39]. Additional work focuses on the content posted
  This methodology provides a proxy for the real world gen-   by bots. Thomas et al. [35] analyze the content of the Web
eralization performance of the bot classiﬁer being evaluated.   pages linked by tweets, learning to identify signs of spam.
It further aids in identifying how much each target class is re-   Lee et al. [26] look for signs of evasion commonly used by
lated to the rest of the bot classes without the need of extensive    cybercriminals, e.g., multiple HTTP redirections. More re-
and costly inspection.                                               cently, Nilizadeh et al. [29] presented POISED, a system that
  Our results provide important insights to the research com-    detects malicious messages (e.g., spam) by identifying ones
munity including a way to compare bot detection algorithms,    with anomalous spreading patterns across the Twitter graph.
beyond their stated accuracy. We further suggest high general-   Fake Accounts. Thomas et al. [36] analyze over a million
ization performance does not necessarily follow high accuracy.    accounts suspended by Twitter and, in follow-up work [37]
We ﬁnally show the positive insight that even a small portion    trafﬁcking of fake Twitter accounts. Yang et al. [40] look at
of certain botnets can be enough to fully identify them when    social relationships between spam accounts on Twitter, while
adding it to a common learning algorithm, allowing a classi-   Dave et al. [14] measure click-spam in ad networks, and Gao
ﬁer to quickly scale, and incrementally consider different and    et al. [20] analyze spam campaigns on Facebook. Stringhini et
newly revealed bots. In summary, this paper makes the follow-     al. [30, 33] study the market of Twitter followers and proposes
ing contributions:                                                   strategies to detect them in the wild. Finally, there have been a
                                                      few efforts both in and out of academia to identify single bot-
   • Shows the need to go beyond common machine learning    nets in their entirety. Some of them have obtained large bot-
     metrics like accuracy, precision, recall, etc.  for Twitter    nets based on geographic anomalies [18] and temporal anoma-
     bot detection. As even getting near perfect values for all     lies [17]. There have been also analysis on botnets promoting
     of them for single bot classes is not necessarily followed    topics or products, including diet pills [28] and even political
    by the ability to detect other botnets.                       candidates [4].
                                                     Our work takes features from these efforts, but changes one
   • Addresses that need by providing a framework with
                                                             important aspect of them. We explicitly test against unseen
    which to evaluate expected generalization of a bot de-
                                                                  classes to evaluate the performance of a classiﬁer. We cre-
     tection algorithm by selectively leaving bot classes and
                                                                    ate a test for this, which is inspired by cross validation and is
     behaviours out of the training data.
                                                            thought of as a proxy for generalization of bot classiﬁcation. It
                                                                    will be clear that for a bot detection strategy to be deemed as   • Collects and combines the biggest and broadest botnet li-
                                                                 “generalizable”, the minimum standard that should be passed     brary to date, which it uses to train a Twitter bot classiﬁer.
                                                                               is the test designed in this paper.
   • Provides a Twitter bot classiﬁcation strategy that reaches
     accuracy values over 97% with a small number of com-
                                     3  Datasets    monly used features, and evaluates its performance using
     the generalization test mentioned earlier.              Two datasets were compiled for this paper.  First, a botnet
                                                                dataset that contains the aggregated content generated from
   • Introduces a framework to explore the trade-offs between    a variety of bot datasets (some previously used in research as
    adding more data from a single bot class and diversifying   ground truth [11, 12, 21]) and, second, a real-user dataset.
     the training data with data from a different bot class. Then     Each dataset includes the information available from the
     analyzes the amount of new samples needed to reach rea-    user’s proﬁle, and all the retrievable tweets at collection time in
     sonable performance on an target bot class, and discuss   accordance to Twitter’s API limitations. This means that each
    on why differences in this metric happen.                  account in our dataset contains a maximum of 3,200 tweets
                                                            authored or retweeted by that account. The way these datasets
                                                      were ﬁnally constructed is illustrated in Fig. 1.
2  Related Work
Bot Detection.  Early approaches to detect bots on Twitter   3.1  Bot Datasets
rely on account characteristics that are typical of fake ac-      In this work, we study to which extent various bot types
counts [2, 31]. Yang et al. [41] show that these approaches   have different signatures that can potentially lead to detection
have a hard time keeping up with the evolution of bots, and    failure when they are ﬁrst discovered (before enough of their
that they require constant retraining.  Another line of work   samples are identiﬁed and included to the training set). To do
looks at the way in which bots connect with other accounts,     this, we build a dataset of 20 different botnet types, each with
forming social networks that are very different from the ones    different purpose and characteristics. To our knowledge, this is
built by legitimate accounts [5, 7, 13]. However, Liu et al [27]    the most extensive and diverse collection of Twitter bots used


                                                   2
