Yes. We provide user IDs of Twit-  and control tweets, were collected us-
ter accounts, which are public informa-  ing the Twitter Academic API. The
tion. One can identify the individuals  data has been thoroughly validated
by querying the Twitter API.           to remove duplicates and ensure con-
                                         sistency in data types.  Data about
Does the dataset contain data that
                                    suspended accounts and inconsistent
might be considered sensitive in
                                        records  (e.g.,  profiles with  creation
any way  (e.g.,  data that reveals
                                      date before the creation of Twitter)
racial or ethnic origins, sexual ori-
                                    have been removed to maintain data
entations, religious beliefs,  polit-
                                            quality.
ical opinions or union member-
ships,  or locations;  financial or                             What mechanisms or procedures
health data; biometric or genetic                               were  used  to  collect  the  data
data; forms of government iden-                                             (e.g., hardware apparatus or sen-
tification, such as social security                                        sor, manual human curation, soft-
numbers; criminal history)?   If so,                               ware program, software API)? How
please provide a description.                                 were these mechanisms  or proce-
 No.  The dataset contains derived
                                   dures validated?
data and Twitter account/tweet IDs
                                The target accounts were manually
are public information.
                                    annotated by one of the authors. The
                                      annotation process is described in the
        Collection Process        RQ1 section of the paper. Other data
                                    were collected from the Twitter API
How was the data associated with  using client software developed by the
each instance acquired? Was the  author.   Extensive exploratory data
data  directly observable  (e.g.,  raw  analysis was conducted to gain insights
text, movie ratings), reported by sub-  into the data, with key findings sum-
jects (e.g., survey responses), or indi-  marized in the paper.
rectly inferred/derived from other data
(e.g.,  part-of-speech  tags,  model-   If the dataset is a sample from a
based guesses for age or language)?  larger set, what was the sampling
If data was reported by subjects or  strategy (e.g., deterministic, proba-
indirectly inferred/derived from other   bilistic with specific sampling prob-
data, was the data validated/verified?  abilities)?
If so, please describe how.           The targeted tweet dataset consists
 The  replies from Influence Opera-  of a sample of tweets from Twitter
tion (IO) accounts were derived from  Influence Operation (IO) campaigns,
Twitter’s Influence Operation dataset,   specifically those that have five or more
which was publicly available on the   replies from IO accounts. In addition,
website  of  the  Twitter Moderation  we collected all replies (without sam-
Research Consortium (https://web.  pling) from normal users responding
archive.org/web/20240829231920/   to the same targeted tweets. For the
https://transparency.x.com/en/     control dataset, we collected all replies
reports/moderation-research) un-  (not sampled) to selected tweets by
til summer 2024.  All other data, in-  targeted users that had five or more
cluding target profiles, normal replies,   replies from any users.


                                  6
