Are  there  tasks  for  which  the  creativecommons.org/licenses/
dataset should not be used?  If so,  by/4.0/).
please provide a description.
                              Have any  third  parties imposed
 Not to our knowledge.
                                  IP-based or other restrictions on
                                    the data associated with the  in-
            Distribution            stances? If so, please describe these
                                             restrictions, and provide a link or other
Will the dataset be distributed to  access point to, or otherwise repro-
third parties outside of the entity  duce, any relevant licensing terms, as
(e.g., company,  institution, orga-  well as any fees associated with these
nization) on behalf of which the   restrictions.
dataset was created?   If so, please   Twitter IO datasets were available un-
provide a description.                  der Twitter terms and policies.
 Yes, we are making the dataset pub-
                           Do any export controls or other
licly available for replication purposes.
                                    regulatory restrictions apply to the
                                   dataset or to individual instances?
How will the dataset will be dis-    If so, please describe these restric-
tributed  (e.g.,  tarball on website,   tions, and provide a link or other ac-
API, GitHub) Does the dataset have  cess point to, or otherwise reproduce,
a digital object identifier (DOI)?        any supporting documentation.
 This datasheet is in the Zenodo repos-   No.
itory that contains the dataset. The
code is available in a Github repository
                                          Maintenance
(https://github.com/osome-iu/
io-coordinated-replies),    which
                         Who  will be  supporting/hosting/
points to the Zenodo DOI.
                                   maintaining the dataset?
When  will  the  dataset  be  dis-   The authors will be supporting and
tributed?                            maintaining the dataset.
 The dataset will be distributed after
                         How can the owner/curator/manager
the publication of our manuscript.  If
                                      of the dataset be contacted (e.g.,
you are reading this datasheet it means
                                   email address)?
the dataset has been distributed.
                                     Contact author’s homepage: https:
Will the dataset be distributed un-  //manitapote.github.io/
der a copyright or other intellectual
                                           Is there an erratum?   If so, please
property (IP) license, and/or under
                                      provide a link or other access point.
applicable terms of use (ToU)?  If
                                   n/a
so, please describe this license and/or
ToU, and provide a link or other ac-  Will the dataset be updated (e.g.,
cess point to, or otherwise reproduce,  to correct labeling errors, add new
any relevant licensing terms or ToU, as  instances,  delete instances)?     If
well as any fees associated with these  so, please describe how  often, by
restrictions.                     whom, and how updates will be com-
    Creative   Commons    Attribu-  municated to users (e.g., mailing list,
tion   4.0   International  (https://  GitHub)?


                                  9
