Datasheet for “Coordinated Reply Attacks in
   Influence Operations: Characterization and
                  Detection”

                       Manita Pote





           Motivation                Philanthropies, and DARPA (contract
                                  HR001121C0169); and by  Lilly En-
For what purpose was the dataset  dowment, Inc. through funding for the
created? Was there a specific task in  Indiana University Pervasive Technol-
mind? Was there a specific gap that  ogy Institute.
needed to be filled? Please provide a
description.                                Composition
 The ‘Reply Coordination Detection’
dataset was curated to study the coor-  What do the instances that com-
dinated replies in the context of influ-  prise the dataset represent  (e.g.,
ence operation on Twitter and to build  documents, photos, people, coun-
a machine learning model to identify  tries)? Are there multiple types of in-
tweets that get malicious coordinated  stances (e.g., movies, users, and rat-
replies as well as the repliers involved  ings; people and interactions between
in such tasks.                        them; nodes and edges)? Please pro-
                                       vide a description.Who  created  this  dataset  (e.g.,
                                    There are multiple data files relatedwhich team, research group) and
                                        to each research question.  Therefore,on behalf of which entity (e.g., com-
                               we present the details on each of thesepany, institution, organization)?
                                     data files. The dataset was created by the first
author of the paper on behalf of the
                       RQ1 target annotation.csvObservatory in Social Media at Indi-
ana University, Bloomington.
                                    Each record in this file represents
Who funded the creation of the  the manual annotation of the profes-
dataset?    If there is an associated  sion and country of a user or target for
grant, please provide the name of the  the Serbia and Egypt campaigns. This
grantor and the grant name and num-   file has following columns:
ber.
                                       • userid
 This work was supported in part by
Knight Foundation, Craig Newmark     • profession label


                                  1
