Who was involved in the data col-  The data were collected through the
lection  process  (e.g.,  students,  Twitter API (https://developer.x.
crowdworkers,  contractors)  and  com/en/docs/x-api).
how were they compensated (e.g.,
                             Were the individuals in questionhow  much  were  crowdworkers
                                       notified about the data collection?paid)?
                                                                If so, please describe (or show with The first author collected the data.
                                    screenshots or other information) how
Over what timeframe was the data  notice was provided, and provide a
collected?  Does this timeframe   link or other access point to, or other-
match the creation timeframe of the  wise reproduce, the exact language of
data associated with the instances  the notification itself.
(e.g., recent crawl of old news ar-   No, the individuals were not notified.
ticles)?   If not, please describe the
timeframe in which the data associ-
                                 Did the individuals in question con-ated with the instances was created.
                                   sent to the collection and use of The data from IO accounts comes
                                         their data?  If so, please describe (orfrom an archived dataset. The normal
                               show with screenshots or other infor-replies to the targeted tweets and the
                                     mation) how consent was requestedcontrol dataset were collected in the
                                and provided, and provide a link orspring of 2023 but created over a pe-
                                       other access point to, or otherwise re-riod of years prior to that.
                                     produce, the exact language to which
Were any ethical review processes  the individuals consented.
conducted (e.g., by an institutional  No consent was required.
review board)?    If so, please pro-
                                                          If  consent was  obtained,  werevide a description of these review pro-
                                    the  consenting  individuals  pro-cesses, including the outcomes, as
                                  vided with a mechanism to revokewell as a link or other access point to
                                         their consent in the future or forany supporting documentation.
                                      certain uses?   If so, please provide The data collection was deemed ex-
                                a description, as well as a link or otherempt  from  review by  the  Indiana
                                  access point to the mechanism (if ap-University IRB (protocols 12410 and
                                           propriate).1102004860).
                                   n/a
Does the dataset relate to people?
                             Has an analysis of the potentialIf not, you may skip the remaining
                                 impact of the dataset and its usequestions in this section.
                             on data subjects (e.g., a data pro- Yes, RQ1 target annotation.csv,
                                      tection impact analysis) been con-RQ3 replier info.csv and
                                ducted?   If so, please provide a de-RQ1 target follower following count.csv
                                           scription of this analysis, including theare associated with Twitter profiles.
                                   outcomes, as well as a link or other
Did you collect the data from the  access point to any supporting docu-
individuals in question directly, or  mentation.
obtain it via third parties or other   The Indiana University IRB deter-
sources (e.g., websites)?           mined that the data collection con-


                                  7
