• quote count              RQ3 replier classifier features.csv

   • type                                    Each record in this file represents a
                                             replier and lists features used to clas-The ‘type’ columns has two values : (1)
                                               sify that replier.  The ‘replier label’target or (2) control.
                                  column indicates if the replier is a nor-
RQ2 tweet classifier features.csv  mal replier (0) or an IO replier (1).
                               The file has 881,918 records. For de-
   Each record in this file represents   tail about the features, please refer to
a targeted or control tweet and  re-  the RQ3 section of the paper.
ports  features  associated with  that
                        RQ3 replier info.csv
tweet.  Please refer to the RQ2 sec-
tion of the manuscript for the names
                                    Each record in this file represents
of the features and how they are calcu-
                                              profile meta-data for a replier.  The
lated. There are 7,732 records in this
                                                        file reports the aggregated count of the
file.  The ‘tweet label’ columns indi-
                                              replier’s activities, their follower and
cates whether the tweet is targeted (1)
                                         following counts, age, and whether the
or control (0) and is used to train/test
                                             replier is an IO replier (1) or a normal
the tweet classifier.
                                             replier (0). There are 881,918 records.
poster tweetid campaign type.csv This file has the following columns:

                                       • replier userid
   Each record in this file represents a
pair consisting of a tweet by a target     • activity count
and a reply to that tweet. The file re-
                                       • replier labelports the target user, the replier, which
campaign the replier belongs to, a la-     • following count
bel for the type of replier, and a label
                                       • followers countfor the type of original tweet. This file
has 2,673,091 records with the follow-                                       • age
ing columns:
                                pos cosine with replier info.pkl.gz
   • poster tweetid

   • campaign                       Each record in this file represents a
                                         pair of replies to a tweet. The file re-
   • replier userid                     ports the cosine similarity between the
                                  two replies, the original tweet that re-
   • replier label
                                        ceived the two replies, the two users
   • replier tweetid               who posted the replies, and their la-
                                             bels: 0 for normal repliers and 1 for
   • type                       IO repliers. This file has 1,260,848,920
                                        records with the following columns:
The ‘type’ column indicates if the orig-
inal tweet  is targeted or part of the     • replier label x
control. The ‘replier label’ column in-
                                       • replier label y
dicates if the replier is a normal replier
(0) or an IO replier (1).                  • replier userid x


                                  3
