dataset?  If so, please provide a de-  privilege or by doctor-patient con-
scription.                                  fidentiality, data that includes the
 Not to our knowledge.               content of individuals non-public
                                communications)? If so, please pro-
Is the dataset self-contained,  or
                                       vide a description.
does it link to or otherwise rely on
                                The dataset contains tweet IDs and
external resources (e.g., websites,
                                        user  IDs  for IO  users/tweets  that
tweets, other datasets)?   If  it links
                                    have been suspended, and for control
to or relies on external resources, a)
                                       users/tweets that are public.  This is
are there guarantees that they will ex-
                                         consistent with Twitter/X terms. The
ist, and remain constant, over time;
                                       dataset also includes annotations of a
b) are there official archival versions
                                   sample of target users based on their
of the complete dataset (i.e., including
                                        public  profiles.   None  of  this data
the external resources as they existed
                                      should include any confidential infor-
at the time the dataset was created);
                                     mation.
c) are there any restrictions (e.g.,  li-
censes, fees) associated with any of  Does the dataset contain data that,
the external resources that might ap-   if viewed  directly,  might be  of-
ply to a future user? Please provide  fensive, insulting, threatening, or
descriptions of all external resources  might otherwise cause anxiety?   If
and any restrictions associated with  so, please describe why.
them, as well as links or other access                                    No.
points, as appropriate.
  The  dataset   is  self-contained  in  Does the dataset relate to people?
terms of reproducing the results. The    If not, you may skip the remaining
original data  for IO  replies to  tar-  questions in this section.
geted tweets comes from the Twit-   Yes, some of the files with user IDs are
ter Influence Operation dataset, which  related to people.
was  publicly  available  until  sum-
mer  2024  (https://web.archive.  Does the dataset identify any sub-
                                  populations (e.g., by age, gender)?org/web/20240829231920/https://
                                                                If so, please describe how these sub-transparency.x.com/en/reports/
moderation-research).  The replies  populations are identified and provide
from normal repliers as well as con-  a description of their respective distri-
trol tweets were collected by the first  butions within the dataset.
author using the Twitter API. How-    In  the ‘RQ1 target annotation.csv’
ever, due to recent changes in Twit-   file, target Twitter accounts are iden-
ter/X’s data sharing policy, the future   tified by profession and country of ori-
availability of this data  is uncertain.  gin. The distributions are reported in
Currently,  obtaining raw tweet and  the paper.
user metadata from Twitter/X using
                                           Is it possible to identify individuals
the IDs in our dataset is prohibitively
                                                     (i.e., one or more natural persons),
expensive.
                                       either directly or indirectly (i.e., in
Does the dataset contain data that  combination with other data) from
might be considered confidential  the dataset?   If so, please describe
(e.g., data that is protected by legal  how.


                                  5
