Similarly, to compute representations for node-level prediction, for each node j in the L-hop neigh-
borhood of u, we concatenate node states sj(t) with features r(t)j!u. Then, we use our injective MP tocombine the information stored in u and its neighboring nodes. Figure 5 illustrates the process.
Notably, Proposition 9 states that PINT is strictly more powerful than existing TGNs. In fact, the
relative positional features mimic the discriminative power of WA-TGNs, while eliminate their
temporal monotonicity constraints. Additionally, PINT can implement injective temporal message
passing (either over states or states + positional features), akin to maximally-expressive MP-TGNs.
Proposition 9 (Expressiveness of PINT: link prediction). PINT (with relative positional features) is
strictly more powerful than MP-TGNs and CAWs in distinguishing events in temporal graphs.
When does PINT fail?  Naturally, whenever the TCTs (annotated with
positional features) for the endpoints of two edges (u, v, t) and (u0, v0, t)
are pairwise isomorphic, PINT returns the same edge embedding and is
not able to differentiate the events. Figure 6 shows an example in which
this happens — we assume that all node/edge features are identical. Due
to graph symmetries, u and z occur the same number of times in each level
                                                                              Figure 6: PINT cannotof v’s monotone TCT. Also, the sets of temporal walks starting at u and z                                                                                     distinguish  the  events
are identical if we swap the labels of these nodes. Importantly, CAWs and                                                                                 (u, v, t3) and (v, z, t3).
MP-TGNs also fail here, as stated in Proposition 9.
Proposition 10 (Limitations of PINT). There are synchronous events of temporal graphs that PINT
cannot distinguish (as seen in Figure 6).
Implementation⇣ and computational⌘   cost. The online updates for PINT’s positional features have

                 u                               vcomplexity O  d |V(t)                                 | + d |V(t)                                                |  . Similarly to CAW’s sampling procedure, our online update
is a sequential process better done in CPUs. However, while CAW may require signiﬁcant CPU-
GPU memory exchange — proportional to both the number of walks and their depth —, we only
communicate the positional features. We can also speed-up the training of PINT by pre-computing
the positional features for each batch, avoiding redundant computations at each epoch. Apart from
positional features, the computational cost of PINT is similar to that of TGN-Att. Following standard
MP-TGN procedure, we control the branching factor of TCTs using neighborhood sampling.
Note that the positional features monotonically increase with time, which is undesirable for practical
generalization purposes. Since our theoretical results hold for any ﬁxed t, this issue can be solved
by dividing the positional features by a time-dependent normalization factor. Nonetheless, we have
found that employing L1-normalization leads to good empirical results for all evaluated datasets.

5  Experiments
We now assess the performance of PINT on several popular and large-scale benchmarks for TGNs.
We run experiments using PyTorch [25] and code is available at www.github.com/AaltoPML/PINT.
Tasks and datasets.  We evaluate PINT on dynamic link prediction, closely following the evaluation
setup employed by Rossi et al. [27] and Xu et al. [42]. We use six popular benchmark datasets:
Reddit, Wikipedia, Twitter, UCI, Enron, and LastFM [16, 27, 38, 42]. Notably, UCI, Enron, and
LastFM are non-attributed networks, i.e., they do not contain feature vectors associated with the
events. Node features are absent in all datasets, thus following previous works we set them to vectors
of zeros [27, 42]. Since Twitter is not publicly available, we follow the guidelines by Rossi et al. [27]
to create our version. We provide more details regarding datasets in the supplementary material.
Baselines.  We compare PINT against ﬁve prominent TGNs: Jodie [16], DyRep [32], TGAT [42],
TGN-Att [27], and CAW [38]. For completeness, we also report results using two static GNNs: GAT
[34] and GraphSage [12]. Since we adopt the same setup as TGN-Att, we use their table numbers
for all baselines but CAW on Wikipedia and Reddit. The remaining results were obtained using the
implementations and guidelines available from the ofﬁcial repositories. As an ablation study, we also
include a version of PINT without relative positional features in the comparison. We provide detailed
information about hyperparameters and the training of each model in the supplementary material.
Experimental setup.  We follow Xu et al. [42] and use a 70%-15%-15% (train-val-test) temporal
split for all datasets. We adopt average precision (AP) as the performance metric. We also analyze
separately predictions involving only nodes seen during training (transductive), and those involving

                                       8
