Initialization: The colors of all nodes in G(t) are initialized using the initial node features: 8v 2
      V (G(t)), c0(v) = xv. If node features are not available, all nodes receive identical colors;  Reﬁnement: At step `, the colors of all nodes are reﬁned using a hash (injective) function: for all
       v 2 V (G(t)), we apply c`+1(v) = HASH(c`(v), {{(c`(u), euv(t0), t0) : (u, v, t0) 2 G(t)}});  Termination: The test is carried out for two temporal graphs at time t in parallel and stops when
        the multisets of corresponding colors diverge, returning non-isomorphic. If the algorithm
        runs until the number of different colors stops increasing, the test is deemed inconclusive.
We note that the temporal WL test trivially reduces to the standard 1-WL test if all timestamps and
edge features are identical. The resemblance between MP-TGNs and GNNs and their corresponding
WL tests suggests that the power of MP-TGNs is bounded by the temporal WL test. Proposition 6
conveys that MP-TGNs with injective layers are as powerful as the temporal WL test.
Proposition 6. Assume ﬁnite spaces of initial node features X, edge features E, and timestamps T .Let the number of events of any temporal graph be bounded by a ﬁxed constant. Then, there is an
MP-TGN with suitable parameters using injective aggregation/update functions that outputs different
representations for two temporal graphs if and only if the temporal-WL test outputs ‘non-isomorphic’.
A natural consequence of the limited power of MP-TGNs is that even the most powerful MP-TGNs
fail to distinguish relevant graph properties, and the same applies to CAWs (see Proposition 7).
Proposition 7. There exist non-isomorphic temporal graphs differing in properties such as diameter,
girth, and total number of cycles, which cannot be differentiated by MP-TGNs and CAWs.
Figure 3 provides a construction for Proposition 7.
The temporal graphs G(t) and G0(t) differ in diameter
(1 vs. 3), girth (3 vs. 6), and number of cycles (2vs. 1). By inspecting the TCTs, one can observe that,
for any node in G(t), there is a corresponding one                                                                      3: Examples                                                                              of temporal                                                                                    graphs                                                                                                       for whichin       whose           TCTs                     are                        isomorphic,                                             e.g., Tu1(t)                                                    ⇠=   Figure   G0(t)                                        MP-TGNs                                                                cannot distinguish                                                                                        the                                                                                           diameter,                                                                                                                    girth,             As                    a result,                              the multisets                                          of node            t > t3.Tu0   1(t) for
embeddings for these temporal graphs are identical.  and number of cycles.
We provide more details and a construction - where CAW fails to decide properties - in the Appendix.

4  Position-encoding injective temporal graph net
We now leverage insights from our analysis in Section 3 to build more powerful TGNs. First, we
discuss how to build injective aggregation and update functions in the temporal setting. Second, we
propose an efﬁcient scheme to compute positional features based on counts from TCTs. In addition,
we show that the proposed method, called position-encoding injective temporal graph net (PINT), is
more powerful than both WA-TGNs and MP-TGNs in distinguishing events in temporal graphs.
Injective temporal aggregation. An important design principle in TGNs is to prioritize (give higher
importance to) events based on recency [38, 42]. Proposition 8 introduces an injective aggregation
scheme that captures this principle using linearly exponential time decay.
Proposition 8 (Injective function on temporal neighborhood). Let X and E be                               Pcountable, and Tcountable and bounded. There exists a function f and scalars ↵and β such that     i f(xi, ei)↵−βti
is unique on any multiset M = {{(xi, ei, ti)}} ✓X ⇥E ⇥T with |M| < N, where N is a constant.
Leveraging Proposition 8 and the approximation capabilities of multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), we
propose position-encoding injective temporal graph net (PINT). In particular, PINT computes the
embedding of node v at time t and layer ` using the following message passing steps:
          X         ⇣         ⌘
                           ˜h(`)v  (t) =             MLP(`)agg  h(`−1)u    (t)  e  ↵−β(t−t0)                   (5)                                                   k
                                 (u,e,t0)2N⇣ (v,t)         ⌘
                                                     v  (t)                                       (6)                      h(`)v  (t) = MLP(`)upd  h(`−1)v    (t) k ˜h(`)
                                  v = sv(t), ↵and β are scalar (hyper-)parameters, and MLP(`)aggwhere k denotes concatenation, h(0)
and MLP(`)upd denote the nonlinear transformations of the aggregation and update steps, respectively.
We note that to guarantee that the MLPs in PINT implement injective aggregation/update, we must
further assume that the edge and node features (states) take values in a ﬁnite support. In addition,

                                       6
