Overview of the theoretical results
            PINT
                                        Relationship between CTDGs and DTDGs               Prop. 1
          Injective        CAW
      MP-TGNs                            Injective MP-TGNs ⌫MP-TGNs                       Prop. 2
                                        Sufﬁciently deep MP-TGNs do not need memory         Prop. 3
           SOTA               SOTA MP-TGNs        MP-TGNs                 Prop. 4                                                      ≺Injective           MP-TGNs
                            MP-TGNs 6≻WA-TGNs and WA-TGNs 6≻MP-TGNs    Prop. 5
                                            Injective MP-TGNs ⇠= temporal-WL test                 Prop. 6
                             MP-TGNs/CAWs cannot recognize graph properties      Prop. 7
                                        Constructing injective temporal MP                     Prop. 8
               Open
                problems             PINT (ours) ≻both MP-TGNs and WA-TGNs           Prop. 9
                                         Limitations of PINT                                   Prop. 10

                Figure 1: Schematic diagram and summary of our contributions.


We establish a series of results to address these fundamental questions. We begin by showing that
discrete-time dynamic graphs (DTDGs) can always be converted to continuous-time analogues
(CTDGs) without loss of information, so we can focus on analyzing the ability of TGNs to distinguish
nodes/links of CTDGs. We consider a general framework for message-passing TGNs (MP-TGNs)
[27] that subsumes a wide variety of methods [e.g., 16, 32, 42]. We prove that equipping MP-TGNs
with injective aggregation and update functions leads to the class of most expressive anonymous
MP-TGNs (i.e., those that do not leverage node ids). Extending the color-reﬁnement algorithm to
temporal settings, we show that these most powerful MP-TGNs are as expressive as the temporal
WL method. Notably, existing MP-TGNs do not enforce injectivity. We also delineate the role of
memory in MP-TGNs: nodes in a network with only a few layers of message passing fail to aggregate
information from a sufﬁciently wide receptive ﬁeld (i.e., from distant nodes), so memory serves
to offset this highly local view with additional global information. In contrast, sufﬁciently deep
architectures obviate the need for memory modules.

Different from MP-TGNs, walk-aggregating TGNs (WA-TGNs) such as CAW [38] obtain represen-
tations from anonymized temporal walks. We provide constructions that expose shortcomings of
each framework, establishing that WA-TGNs can distinguish links in cases where MP-TGNs fail and
vice-versa. Consequently, neither class is more expressive than the other. Additionally, we show that
MP-TGNs and CAWs cannot decide temporal graph properties such as diameter, girth, or number of
cycles. Strikingly, our analysis unravels the subtle relationship between the walk computations in
CAWs and the MP steps in MP-TGNs.

Equipped with these theoretical insights, we propose PINT (short for position-encoding injective
temporal graph net), founded on a new temporal layer that leverages the strengths of both MP-TGNs
and WA-TGNs. Like the most expressive MP-TGNs, PINT deﬁnes injective message passing and
update steps. PINT also augments memory states with novel relative positional features, and these
features can replicate all the discriminative beneﬁts available to WA-TGNs. Interestingly, the time
complexity of computing our positional features is less severe than the sampling overhead in CAW,
thus PINT can often be trained faster than CAW. Importantly, we establish that PINT is provably
more expressive than CAW as well as MP-TGNs.
Our contributions are three-fold:
        • a rigorous theoretical foundation for TGNs is laid - elucidating the role of memory, beneﬁts
         of injective message passing, limits of existing TGN models, temporal extension of the
      1-WL test and its implications, impossibility results about temporal graph properties, and
         the relationship between main classes of TGNs — as summarized in Figure 1;

        • explicit injective temporal functions are introduced, and a novel method for temporal graphs
           is proposed that is provably more expressive than state-of-the-art TGNs;

        • extensive empirical investigations underscore practical beneﬁts of this work. The proposed
       method is either competitive or signiﬁcantly better than existing models on several real
        benchmarks for dynamic link prediction, in transductive as well as inductive settings.


                                       2
