Figure 2: Limitations of TGNs. [Left] Temporal graph with nodes u, v that TGN-Att/TGAT cannot
distinguish. Colors are node features, edge features are identical, and t3 > t2 > t1. [Center] TCTs
of u and v are non-isomorphic. However, the attention layers of TGAT/TGN-Att compute weighted
averages over a same multiset of values, returning identical messages for u and v. [Right] MP-TGNs
fail to distinguish the events (u, v, t3) and (v, z, t3) as TCTs of z and u are isomorphic. Meanwhile,
CAW cannot separate (u, z, t3) and (u0, z, t3): the 3-depth TCTs of u and u0 are not isomorphic, but
the temporal walks from u and u0 have length 1, keeping CAW from capturing structural differences.

                                L  denote the class of MP-TGNs with recurrent memoryProposition 3 (The role of memory). Let Q[M]
and L layers. Similarly, we denote by QL the family of memoryless MP-TGNs with L layers. Let ∆
be the temporal diameter of G(t) (see Deﬁnition B2). Then, it holds that:
      1.  If L < ∆: Q[M]                L   is strictly more powerful than QL in distinguishing nodes of G(t);
      2. For any L : QL+∆is at least as powerful as Q[M]                                         L   in distinguishing nodes of G(t).
The MP-TGN framework is rather general and subsumes many modern methods for temporal graphs
[e.g., 16, 32, 42]. We now analyze the theoretical limitations of two concrete instances of MP-TGNs:
TGAT [42] and TGN-Att [27]. Remarkably, these models are among the best-performing MP-TGNs.
Nonetheless, we can show that there are nodes of very simple temporal graphs that TGAT and
TGN-Att cannot distinguish (see Figure 2). We formalize this in Proposition 4 by establishing that
there are cases in which TGNs with injective layers can succeed, but TGAT and TGN-Att cannot.
Proposition 4 (Limitations of TGAT/TGN-Att). There exist temporal graphs containing nodes u, v
that have non-isomorphic TCTs, yet no TGAT nor TGN-Att with mean memory aggregator (i.e., using
MEAN as MEMAGG) can distinguish u and v.
This limitation stems from the fact that the attention mechanism employed by TGAT and TGN-Att is
proportion invariant [26]. The memory module of TGN-Att cannot counteract this limitation due to
its mean-based aggregation scheme. We provide more details in Appendix B.6.

3.2  Predicting temporal links
Models for dynamic graphs are usually trained and evaluated on temporal link prediction [18], which
consists in predicting whether an event would occur at a given time. To predict an event between
nodes u and v at t, MP-TGNs combine the node embeddings h(L)u  (t) and h(L)v  (t), and push the
resulting vector through an MLP. On the other hand, CAW is originally designed for link prediction
tasks and directly computes edge embeddings, bypasssing the computation of node representations.
We can extend the notion of node distinguishability to edges/events. We say that a model distinguishes
two synchronous events γ = (u, v, t) and γ0 = (u0, v0, t) of a temporal graph if it assigns different
edge embeddings hγ 6= hγ0 for γ and γ0. Proposition 5 asserts that CAWs are not strictly moreexpressive than MP-TGNs, and vice-versa. Intuitively, CAW’s advantage over MP-TGNs lies in its
ability to exploit node identities and capture correlation between walks. However, CAW imposes
temporal constraints on random walks, i.e., walks have timestamps in decreasing order, which can
limit its ability to distinguish events. Figure 2(Right) sketches constructions for Proposition 5.
Proposition 5 (Limitations of MP-TGNs and CAW). There exist distinct synchronous events of a
temporal graph that CAW can distinguish but MP-TGNs with injective layers cannot, and vice-versa.

3.3  Connections with the WL test
The Weisfeiler-Leman test (1-WL) has been used as a key tool to analyze the expressive power of
GNNs. We now study the power of MP-TGNs under a temporally-extended version of 1-WL, and
prove negative results regarding whether TGNs can recognize properties of temporal graphs.
Temporal WL test. We can extend the WL test for temporal settings in a straightforward manner by
exploiting the equivalence between temporal graphs and multi-graphs with timestamped edges [24].
In particular, the temporal variant of 1-WL assigns colors for all nodes in an input dynamic graph
G(t) by applying the following iterative procedure:

                                       5
