

===== PDF p.1 =====
Proceedings of the Nineteenth International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (ICWSM 2025)




             Coordinated Reply Attacks in Influence Operations:
                        Characterization and Detection

          Manita Pote1*, Tu˘grulcan Elmas2, Alessandro Flammini1, Filippo Menczer1
                                                     1 Indiana University Bloomington
                                                         2 University of Edinburgh




                      Abstract                                 to distort trends and attract or distract the attention of main-
                                                            stream media (Ong and Caba˜nes 2018); use of inauthentic
  Coordinated reply attacks are a tactic observed in online in-                                                       and automated accounts to create the appearance of popu-
   fluence operations and other coordinated campaigns to sup-
                                                                            larity (Elmas 2023; Woolley and Howard 2018); deletion of   port or harass targeted individuals, or influence them or their
                                                               content violating terms of service to avoid detection by plat-   followers. Despite its potential to influence the public, past
   studies have yet to analyze or provide a methodology to de-        forms (Torres-Lugo et al. 2022); troll accounts (Zannettou
   tect this tactic. In this study, we characterize coordinated re-          et al. 2019a); the spread of disinformation and propaganda
   ply attacks in the context of influence operations on Twitter.        (Woolley and Howard 2018; Hristakieva et al. 2022); politi-
  Our analysis reveals that the primary targets of these attacks          cal memes (Rowett 2018; Zannettou et al. 2020; Ng, Moffitt,
   are influential people such as journalists, news media, state        and Carley 2022); and ‘kompromat’ strategies to influence
   officials, and politicians.                                              political events (Woolley and Howard 2018).
  We propose two supervised machine-learning models, one to          IOs can be state-sponsored, and originate domestically or
   classify tweets to determine whether they are targeted by a re-          in a foreign state (Bradshaw and Howard 2017). A prime
   ply attack, and one to classify accounts that reply to a targeted                                                       example of foreign-initiated campaign was the effort to in-
   tweet to determine whether they are part of a coordinated at-
                                                                       terfere in the 2016 US Presidential Election by the Rus-
   tack. The classifiers achieve AUC scores of 0.88 and 0.97,
                                                                  sian Internet Research Agency (IRA) (Senate Select Com-   respectively. These results indicate that accounts involved in
   reply attacks can be detected, and the targeted accounts them-         mittee on Intelligence 2019). Reports on IOs from differ-
   selves can serve as sensors for influence operation detection.         ent countries like China, Brazil, and Nigeria show that such
                                                        campaigns have emerged as a global threat (Bradshaw and
                                                  Howard 2017; Woolley and Howard 2018; Bush 2020).
                Introduction                                                               Here, we focus on coordinated reply attacks, where a
Social media platforms are the primary environments in      group of accounts work together to target specific individ-
which civic engagement takes place. They play an impor-       uals or entities by flooding their posts with replies. This can
tant role in the exchange of ideas, discussion of political      be done to overwhelm the target, push a particular narrative,
agendas, and development of political identities thanks to       or generate engagement. Coordinated reply attacks are ac-
the ease with which one can access and consume informa-       tively employed in influence operations (Matthews and Go-
tion and build influence. However, social media platforms      erzen 2019; Bush 2020). Such a tactic has been used for
are also exploited by coordinated groups to purposefully dis-      harassment, as observed for example in a hate-speech cam-
tribute misleading information (Weedon, Nuland, and Sta-      paign against Mehreen Faruqi, Australia’s first female Mus-
mos 2017; Starbird, Arif, and Wilson 2019), artificially am-      lim senator (Thomas, Thompson, and Wanless 2020); ampli-
plify certain content (Elmas, Overdorf, and Aberer 2022), or       fication by inauthentic accounts (Weedon, Nuland, and Sta-
interfere with elections (Ferrara et al. 2020; Office of the Di-     mos 2017; Thomas et al. 2021); and spamming, trolling, and
rector of National Intelligence 2017; Neudert, Howard, and       incitement.
Kollanyi 2019). These types of social media exploitation are         In this paper, we provide a quantitative, large-scale study
referred to as information operations or influence operations       of coordinated reply attacks in influence operations reported
(IOs).                                                 by Twitter.1 We explore the targeting patterns of IO actors
  Influence operations are organized attempts to achieve a      employing this tactic and introduce methods to detect the
specific effect, such as manipulating public opinion, usually       targets of these attacks and the actors involved. We pose the
through coordinated tactics (Pamment and Smith 2022). IO      following research questions:
tactics include public relations via advertising or paid digi-
                                                                             • RQ1: Who are the targets of coordinated replies, and
tal influencers (Ong and Caba˜nes 2018); hashtag hijacking
                                                          what specific topics characterize the tweets that attract
   *Corresponding author. Email: potem@iu.edu
Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial          1Although Twitter is now called X, we use the previous name
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.                       because the data analyzed here predates the name change.


                                                   1586


===== PDF p.2 =====
such coordinated responses?                                Stanford Internet Observatory (2021) produced several re-
                                                                   ports describing influence campaigns and a range of tactics • RQ2: Among a set of tweets by potential targets, how
                                                          used by IO actors, including coordinated reply attacks (Bush   can we identify those that receive coordinated replies?
                                                              2020). While that work provides a qualitative description of
 • RQ3: Given a set of targeted tweets, how can we detect                                                                 the tactic, here we focus on methods to detect it.
   the accounts that participate in coordinated replies?
                                                              Coordinated reply attacks are also carried out by auto-
  We make the following contributions:                      mated accounts; social bots have been reported to target in-
 • We find that primary targets of coordinated reply attacks       fluential users in an attempt to direct their attention toward
   are mostly influential people such as journalists, news      fake news (Shao et al. 2018). Financial rather than political
   media, state officials, and politicians. Most of the targets       incentives may be the drivers of such tactics, as in the case of
   are attacked only once. The attacks for most of the tar-      cryptocurrency manipulation (Yang and Menczer 2024). The
   gets are sporadic and tend to focus on specific contexts,      methods presented here are context-independent and there-
   such as politics. The attackers can originate from within       fore could be applied to these kinds of campaigns.
   the target’s country or from foreign states.
 • We present a classifier model to identify tweets that are     Detection of Influence Operations
   targeted by coordinated replies. This model is general-
   izable to other contexts, as it does not use any features
                                              Many supervised machine-learning models have been pro-
   specific to IOs. It can also be developed into a tool for
                                                         posed in the literature to detect IO actors, especially IRA
   monitoring and safety.
                                                                              trolls on Twitter, using deceptive linguistic cues (Addawood
 • We present a second model that performs well on the task        et al. 2019) and behavioral and linguistic features (Im et al.
   of detecting accounts that are involved in reply attacks.        2020). Luceri, Giordano, and Ferrara (2020) propose an in-
                                                                verse reinforcement learning model for this task. Alizadeh
               Related Work                               et al. (2020) build a content-based classifier to detect tweets
                                                       from troll accounts in Russia, China, and Venezuela IO cam-Given the dearth of prior research on coordinated reply at-
                                                                 paigns. Work from Sharma et al. (2021) uses a generativetacks, we review the literature on IOs in general.
                                                     model to learn hidden group behavior to identify coordi-
                                                              nated accounts. Ezzeddine et al. (2023) present an LSTM-
Characterization of Influence Operations
                                                           based approach that identifies troll accounts based on behav-
Influence operations present novel challenges to content       ioral cues. Kong et al. (2023) propose an interval-censored
moderation on social media. A crucial initial step to ad-      transformer Hawkes architecture to identify IO operators. A
dress these challenges is to characterize how IO actors op-      supervised model by Saeed et al. (2022) leverages the fea-
erate: their tactics, motivations, and engagement patterns.       tures engineered from the interaction patterns of seed Rus-
Matthews and Goerzen (2019) present different trolling       sian troll accounts on Reddit to find other troll accounts.
techniques used in social media, from dogpiling to sock                                                     Our work is similar to the above-mentioned efforts in the
puppetry, along with interventions. Zannettou et al. (2019a)                                                            use of a supervised learning approach to identify coordi-
observe that Russian trolls displayed different behavior in                                                              nated accounts. However, we design features that leverage
the use of Twitter compared to random users. The same au-                                                                 the targeting behaviors of the IO actors, specifically focus-
thors also find that Russian trolls on Twitter and Reddit were                                                               ing on reply/comment engagements. Our method does not
pro-Trump, while Iranian trolls were anti-Trump (Zannet-                                                            use any IO-specific features or sentiment cues, therefore it
tou et al. 2019b). The images shared by Russian trolls ap-                                                          can be generalized to different social media platforms that
peared in many popular social networks as well as main-                                                          have similar engagement functionalities.
stream and alternative news outlets, and focused on Russia,
                                                                   Influence operations are one kind of coordinated cam-Ukraine, and the USA (Zannettou et al. 2020). Dutt, Deb,
                                                                 paign. A body of work has explored unsupervised methodsand Ferrara (2018) analyze the advertisements purchased by
                                                                     to detect coordinated behaviors in general. Pacheco et al.IRA accounts on Facebook and identify their changing cam-
                                                            (2021) introduced a network-based framework for coordi-paign targets over time by performing clustering and seman-
                                                                nation detection. As campaigns use more than one tactictic analysis. Stewart, Arif, and Starbird (2018) investigate
                                                                          at a time, Uyheng, Cruickshank, and Carley (2022) presentthe behavior of Russian trolls around the #BlackLivesMat-
                                                            a multi-view modularity clustering method. A Bayesianter movement and find that the trolls infiltrated both right-
                                                     model by Hudson Smith, Ehrett, and Warren (2024) lever-and left-leaning political communities to participate in both
                                                            ages similarities in narrative and account characteristics.sides of the discussion. Farkas and Bastos (2018) manu-
                                                        Nwala, Flammini, and Menczer (2023) propose a languageally annotate IRA-linked tweets into 19 different categories
                                                       framework that represents user actions and content as se-to study whether IRA operations are consistent with clas-
                                                          quences of symbols to find coordinated accounts.sic propaganda models. Merhi, Rajtmajer, and Lee (2023)
find that the accounts involved in an IO in Turkey were re-        Unlike the above methods, we do not cluster accounts
silient to large-scale shutdown. Elmas, Overdorf, and Aberer      based on similar behaviors. We classify individual posts
(2023) discover that IO actors and other adversarial accounts      based on aggregate features of their replies, and individual
often change their names and assume new identities. The      accounts based on their metadata and reply activity.


                                                   1587


===== PDF p.3 =====
Data Collection

For the present study of coordinated reply attacks, we use 43
different state-sponsored IO datasets released by the Twit-
ter Moderation Research Consortium from October 2018 to
December 2021.2 These datasets are archives of suspended
accounts that Twitter claims to have been involved in foreign
influence operations. Along with the account metadata, the
datasets provide all the tweets generated by the accounts.
  Since according to Twitter the campaigns in these datasets
are coordinated by a single entity, they provide us with
ground truth for our study. Indeed,  if we observe mass
replies to a single target from multiple accounts labeled by
Twitter as coordinated, we can establish that the coordinated      Figure 1: Data collection for the classifiers. The dashed line
reply attack tactic has been used.                                separated the last IO reply and the first successive tweet by
                                                                 the target.
Target Dataset
First, we merge the datasets of all the IOs and keep all the      Classification Dataset
replies by IO accounts to tweets by non-IO accounts. We
                                                    To identify tweets targeted by coordinated replies (RQ2) andrefer to the latter accounts as targets and to the replies by
                                                             accounts that participate in such activity (RQ3), we considerIO accounts as IO replies. There are in total 17,873,714 IO
                                                                   targeted tweets as our positive examples. For correspondingreplies from 44,425 IO accounts targeting 15,256,547 tweets
                                                                negative examples, we collect control tweets posted by theby 1,763,084 distinct targets. From this data, we extract
                                                    same targets after the last IO reply. This ensures that the15,016 targets and 96,041 tweets that received five or more
                                                               tweets in our control data did not receive any coordinateddirect replies from IO accounts. We assume these tweets
                                                                      replies by IO accounts. Fig. 1 illustrates the data collection.have been targeted by coordinated reply attacks, and we la-
                                                  As in the case of positive examples, we only retain con-bel them as targeted tweets. The threshold of five or more
                                                                             trol tweets with five or more replies. In addition, to avoidreplies is arbitrary; a robustness analysis shows that the de-
                                                                  bias due to the diverse activity of the targets, we collecttection of targeted tweets does not seem to be affected by
                                                       from each target as many control tweets as targeted tweets.this parameter, as discussed later (Fig. 7).
                                                                       Specifically, we select control tweets that were posted im-
  The targeted tweets can still be publicly available at the
                                                             mediately after the last IO reply, subject to the five-reply
time of our analysis, allowing us to collect all of their replies.
                                                   minimum. In cases where we could not obtain as many con-
Some of these replies may have originated from non-IO
                                                                             trol tweets as targeted tweets, we ensure a balanced dataset
repliers, both before and after the IO accounts were taken
                                                     by keeping the most recent targeted tweets.
down by Twitter. We refer to these replies as normal replies
                                                                  Similar to the targeted tweets, we fetch all the replies to
and to their authors as normal repliers. Since we only have
                                                                 the control tweets and all replier metadata. The resulting
direct replies by IO accounts, we only consider direct replies
                                                                       classification dataset includes 3,866 targeted tweets and the
by normal repliers as well; replies to replies are discarded.
                                                    same number of control tweets by 1,507 targets. The drop
In addition to the metadata about the IO replies that are
                                                                     in the number of tweets compared to the target dataset is
present in the initial data, we query the /users/:id,
                                                       due to the various constraints outlined above: authors with
/search/all, and /tweets/?ids= endpoints of the
                                                                 deleted or suspended accounts, or with no original tweets af-Twitter API3 to collect metadata about the targets, the tar-
                                                                            ter the IO, were removed; only original tweets with at least
geted tweets, their normal replies, and the normal repliers.
                                                                         five replies were considered; and original (targeted or con-
We collected this information in April 2023.
                                                                             trol) tweets were removed due to balancing. There are in to-
  Among the 15,016 targets, 5,041 were suspended, 3,992                                                                                tal 881,918 and 323,378 repliers in the positive and negative
could not be found (possibly deleted accounts), and 5,983                                                            examples, respectively. These include IO and normal repli-
were alive at analysis time (2,031 verified and 3,952 non-                                                                           ers. While the full classification dataset is used for RQ2, for
verified accounts). Of the  total 96,041 targeted tweets,                                        RQ3 we only use the positive examples (targeted tweets):
43,048 could not be found, which means these tweets could                                                           7,670 IO repliers and 874,248 normal repliers.
have originated from deleted or suspended accounts; 18,808
had unauthorized access; and 34,185 were accessible. For                                              RQ1: Targets and Topics
our influence operation case studies (RQ1), we consider this
target dataset of 34,185 tweets by 5,983 targets.                  In this section, we present an exploratory analysis of the tar-
                                                                  gets of coordinated reply attacks and two case studies of spe-
   2IO datasets were available at transparency.x.com/en/reports/        cific campaigns where we can analyze the targets as well as
moderation-research until summer 2024. An archival version of       the topics of their targeted tweets and other tactics employed
the site is available at web.archive.org/web/20240829231920/https:       in the campaigns.
//transparency.x.com/en/reports/moderation-research.                   Exploratory analysis of target metadata (Fig. 2a) shows
    3developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/                           that targets tend to have more followers (median 22,540)


                                                   1588


===== PDF p.4 =====
Figure 3: Characterization of the Serbia campaign. Distribu-
                                                                     tions of (A) countries and (B) professions of the targets. BiH
                                               = Bosnia and Herzegovina, NA = Not Available (C) Word-
                                                                           shift graph comparing the most frequent words in targeted
                                                       and non-targeted tweets. The top bar represents the cumula-
                                                                         tive contribution of each type of word shift.
Figure 2: Complementary cumulative distribution functions
(CCDF) of statistics describing target accounts and their
tweets. (A) Numbers of followers and following (friends) of     we report the top 10 target professions/types and countries.
targets. (B) Number of targeted tweets per target. (C) Num-    We also inspected the targeted tweets to understand the con-
ber of coordinated replies received by each targeted tweet.       text of the attacks. In preprocessing, we used Google Trans-
(D) Time delay between targeted tweets and their coordi-        late to translate the targeted tweets into English and removed
nated replies.                                                   stop words and emojis.

                                                    Case Study: Serbia.  The majority of accounts targeted by
                                                                 the Serbia campaign, approximately 648, were from Serbiathan following (median 707). This suggests that targets can
                                                                                   itself, with the remaining coming from the Balkan regionbe influential people. Reply attacks tend to be selective
                                                                      (Fig. 3a). This suggests that the campaign focused its ef-(Fig. 2b): only a few tweets by each target were targeted
                                                                         forts on influencing public opinion within Serbia. Fig. 3b(median one). The median number of coordinated replies re-
                                                                   reveals that the coordinated reply attacks primarily targetedceived by targeted tweets was eight (Fig. 2c). Coordinated
                                                                      journalists (102), state officials (99), news media organi-replies tend to occur quickly after a targeted tweet, with a
                                                                  zations (76), and politicians (43). A wordshift graph (Gal-median delay of 3 hours (Fig. 2d). However, these distri-
                                                                lagher et al. 2021) highlighting the most prominent termsbutions are broad. For example, 54 of the targeted tweets
                                                                     in the targeted tweets (Fig. 3c) shows that the campaignreceived more than 1,000 replies.
                                                            focused on President Vucic, the Serbian Progressive Party
  The above statistics are merely descriptive, as we lack a
                                                          (SNS), the 2017 election, the “1 out of 5 Millions” protest,
reference model to interpret how targeted users differ from
                                                       and the Serbia-Kosovo diplomatic crisis. These findings are
the general population of Twitter users. To better understand
                                                                   consistent with analysis by Bush (2020), who reported that
what kinds of accounts were targeted, one of the authors
                                                                 the primary objective of IO actors involved in the Serbia
annotated some target profiles with the corresponding pro-
                                                       campaign was to rally support for President Alexander Vu-
fessions or organization types and country of origin. We
                                                                     cic and his party, the SNS. This was achieved by promoting
used manual annotation by checking each Twitter profile,
                                                                 the popularity and visibility of Vucic and the SNS through
description, the profession metadata indicated by the ‘brief-
                                                               retweeting their content and replying to other accounts with
case icon,’ and by searching Google for the accounts with
                                                                supportive messages. The IO accounts also targeted oppo-
more than a million followers. We grouped profession and
                                                              nent political parties with derisive tweets and attempted to
organization types into broad categories, such as state of-
                                                                      discredit them by flooding their posts with negative com-
ficials, news media, and politicians. Accounts with insuffi-
                                                             ments. This tactic aimed to create a public perception that
cient information were labeled ‘Not Available.’
                                                                 the opposition was unpopular.
  As the annotation process was time-consuming, we fo-
cused on two cases, namely two of the five campaigns with     Case Study: Egypt.   Fig. 4a shows that the majority of
the most targets: Serbia (the top campaign with 1,175 tar-      accounts targeted by the Egypt campaign were from mul-
gets) and Egypt (the fifth campaign with 372 targets). Ap-        tiple Middle East and North Africa countries, primarily
proximately 26% of the targeted accounts in the Serbia cam-      Saudi Arabia (74 targets), Egypt (39), UAE (36), Qatar
paign and 20% in the Egypt campaign did not have sufficient       (30), and Yemen (26). This suggests a potential interstate
information available. In the next subsections, for each case,       attack. News media organization (67), journalists (52), and


                                                   1589


===== PDF p.5 =====
Set           Attributes
                                                                      like count
                                                                       Engagement  retweet count
                                                                      reply count
                                                                      mention count
                                                                                             Entities     hashtag count
                                                                      url count
                                                                          Delay       reply time diff
                                                                                         Similarity    cosine

                                                             Table 1: Reply-level attributes used to generate features for
                                                                 the tweet classifier.


Figure 4: Characterization of the Egypt campaign. Distribu-       ing, while inauthentic activity mainly focused on manipu-
tions of (A) countries and (B) professions of the targets. (C)       lating conversations through replies. Based on these obser-
Wordshift graph comparing the most frequent words in tar-       vations, we use three tweet-level features: reply count,
geted and non-targeted tweets.                        retweet count, and like count.
                                                               Next, let us consider reply-level features. These are based
                                                     on eight attributes, listed in Table 1. Engagement and en-
state officials (29) were again the main targets of the co-        tity attributes are defined for each reply. The delay is also
ordinated replies (Fig. 4b). The analysis of common terms       defined, for each reply, as the difference between the times-
in the targeted tweets (Fig. 4c) and manual inspection re-      tamps of the tweet and the reply. The similarity is designed
veal that the Egypt campaign primarily focused on religious       to capture the presence of similar narratives in replies, a
themes, terrorism, and current affairs like the Iran Nuclear     common characteristic of inauthentic engagement. To this
deal (2018), Yemen’s Houthi movement, Sudan’s military      end, we first generate vector embeddings for the replies us-
coup, and the Muslim Brotherhood. These observations are      ing the LaBSE model (Feng et al. 2020), which supports 109
consistent with a report by DiResta, Kheradpir, and Miller      languages. The cosine attribute is then computed for each
(2020), describing an IO activity orchestrated by Egypt and       pair of replies to the same tweet as the cosine similarity be-
the UAE, supporting the Saudi and Egyptian governments      tween the corresponding vectors.
and criticizing Qatar, Turkey, Yemen, Iran.                        Since targeted tweets can have many replies, this proce-
  Both case studies indicate that influential people like jour-      dure yields many attribute values that must be aggregated
nalists, news media, state officials, and politicians, are the       to obtain a set of features for each tweet. In the case of en-
primary targets of coordinated reply attacks. These targets      gagement, entities, and delay attributes, we have one value
can be from different countries than the campaign’s country      per reply. For the similarity attribute, we have one value
of origin. The topics of the targeted tweets depend on the      per a pair of replies. In all cases, we aggregate these val-
current affairs of the specific geographic region or country.       ues to obtain a single distribution of attribute values for each
                                                                  tweet. From these distributions we compute the following 12
        RQ2: Tweet Classification               summary statistic features: range, 25/50/75 quartiles, inter-
                                                                      quartile range, minimum, maximum, mean, standard devia-Identifying the tweets that receive inauthentic coordinated
                                                                          tion, skewness, kurtosis, and entropy. Since we do this forreplies  is a necessary  first step toward the detection of
                                                          each of eight attributes, the total number of reply-level fea-both the targets and the perpetrators of a coordinated at-
                                                                     tures used in the classifier is 8×12 = 96. Including the threetack. To address this challenge, we propose a campaign-
                                                                   tweet-level features, the classifier uses a total of 99 features.independent classifier for identifying IO-targeted tweets.
The same methodology could also be generalized to plat-
                                                       Resultsforms other than Twitter.
                                         We compare different machine learning models: Logistic
Classifier Features                                          Regression, Random Forest, AdaBoost, Decision Tree, and
The tweet  classifier leverages several features extracted      Naive Bayes. Prior to training, we standardize the input fea-
from tweets and from the replies they receive. Let us first       tures via z-scores. We conduct 10-fold cross-validation to
focus on tweet-level features, specifically tweet engage-       mitigate over-fitting of the training data and report on the
ment. We find a few key differences between the engage-     mean precision, recall, and F1 values across folds along with
ment metrics of IO-targeted vs. control tweets. As illus-    AUC in Table 2. Precision, recall, and F1 depend on a thresh-
trated in Fig. 5a, IO-targeted tweets receive more replies      old to transform the model score into a binary classification
(median 31 vs. 22 for control tweets). On the other hand,       label. We tune the threshold to maximize the mean F1 across
control tweets receive slightly more retweets (median 84       folds. In the following, we focus on Random Forest (with
vs. 75 for IO-targeted tweets, Fig. 5b) and more likes (me-     100 estimator trees), which yields the best scores overall.
dian 420 vs. 250, Fig. 5c). This suggests that organic en-       To study the contributions of different features, we fol-
gagement generated more positive interactions and shar-      lowed two approaches. First, we trained and tested Random


                                                   1590


===== PDF p.6 =====
Figure 5: Engagement received by targeted and control tweets. (A) Replies, (B) retweets, and (C) likes. The distributions are
significantly different in all cases according to Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests (p < 10−6).

                              Classifier               Prec.         Rec.        F1      AUC
                             Logistic Regression   0.65 ± 0.00   0.86 ± 0.00   0.74 ± 0.00   0.80 ± 0.00
                     Random Forest       0.73 ± 0.00   0.87 ± 0.00   0.80 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00
                        AdaBoost            0.64 ± 0.00   0.89 ± 0.00   0.74 ± 0.00   0.81 ± 0.00
                           Decision Tree        0.52 ± 0.01   0.95 ± 0.02   0.66 ± 0.00   0.69 ± 0.00
                         Naive Bayes          0.49 ± 0.00   1.00 ± 0.00   0.66 ± 0.00   0.68 ± 0.00

Table 2: Results of different algorithms in the tweet classification task. We present standard errors rounded to the second decimal
point.


      Features set         Prec.   Rec.   F1  AUC
     reply count       0.5    0.99   0.67   0.59
     retweet count    0.49    1     0.66   0.54
     like count        0.49    1     0.66   0.52
      Engagement         0.69    0.86   0.77   0.84
        Entities              0.52    0.95   0.67   0.65
      Delay               0.51    0.96   0.67   0.66
       Similarity            0.54    0.96   0.69   0.68
       All features          0.73    0.87   0.80   0.88

Table 3: Contributions of different tweet-level features and
reply-level feature sets to the Random Forest tweet classifier.
The last row (using all features) corresponds to the results in
Table 2.


Forest on individual tweet-level features and reply-level fea-      Figure 6: Permutation feature importance for tweet classi-
ture sets. The results using 10-fold cross-validation are given         fier. We report the median (orange line), 50% confidence in-
in Table 3. Second, we performed a permutation feature im-       terval (box), and 99.3% confidence interval (whiskers) of the
portance test, which measures the importance of features by      drop in F1 score when each feature/attribute set is shuffled.
computing the loss in accuracy when the values of those fea-     Boxes with the same color indicate attributes in the same
tures are shuffled (permuted). To simplify the analysis, for       feature set. Larger values indicate higher importance.
each reply-level attribute we shuffled all the corresponding
features rather than each feature individually. For example,
for the like count engagement attribute, we shuffled all
12 summary statistics features at once. We repeated this test        ter users; instead, they primarily boosted retweet and reply
10 times and recorded the drop in mean F1 score from 10-      counts for other IO accounts to artificially amplify Vucic
fold cross-validation for each iteration. The distribution of      and his allies on Twitter (Bush 2020). In fact, we find that
these drop values is given in Fig. 6.                                 replies to targeted tweets from IO accounts have a higher
                                                 mean retweet count than replies from normal repliers (0.63  Both approaches consistently show that reply-level en-
                                                            vs 0.31) and also a higher mean like count (1.28 vs 0.81) andgagement features are important. A classifier using only
                                                 mean reply count (0.20 vs 0.13). However, our data does notthose features achieves F1=0.77 and AUC=0.84 (Table 3),
                                                             allow us to determine if such engagement was mostly drivenand removing those features causes significant drops in F1
                                                     by IO accounts or organic.(Fig. 6). In our classification dataset, the majority of targets
are from the Serbia campaign. IO accounts in this campaign        Since reply-level engagement may be affected by the
were not intended to generate engagement with other Twit-       popularity of the targeted tweets,  it is legitimate to ask


                                                   1591


===== PDF p.7 =====
Test
                                                                Train
                                                           RS   SA   TR  EG   SA/EG/AE   Other
                                                  RS          0.85   0.54   0.61   0.56      0.52      0.65
                                               SA          0.55   0.76   0.53   0.63      0.74      0.68
                                               TR          0.61   0.60   0.74   0.63      0.65      0.68
                                             EG          0.43   0.37   0.36   0.65      0.38      0.39
                                                      SA/EG/AE   0.47   0.58   0.57   0.60      0.73      0.48
                                                                   Other        0.62   0.59   0.63   0.56      0.52     0 .74

                                                             Table 4: F1 scores obtained from same-campaign (diago-
                                                                 nal entries, in bold) and cross-campaign evaluations of the
                                                              tweet classifier. RS=Serbia, SA=Saudi Arabia, TR=Turkey,
                                                     EG=Egypt. SA/EG/AE = Saudi Arabia/Egypt/Arab Emi-
                                                                       rates is a campaign involving three countries.

Figure 7: Scores of tweet classifiers based on different
thresholds for the number of IO replies received by targeted                                                               values are obtained when the model trained on all data from
tweets.                                                       one campaign (optimized to maximize F1) is tested on other
                                                           campaigns. As expected, the models perform better when
                                                                   trained and tested on the same campaign. However, models
whether tweet-level engagement features would provide suf-      can generalize, with F1 drops that depend on the specific
ficient signals to discriminate between targeted and control      campaigns. This suggests that at least some commonalities
tweets. However, Table 3 indicates that tweet-level reply,       exist across coordinated reply campaigns.
like, and retweet counts do not provide very informative sig-
nals for tweet classification. To further explore this question,           RQ3: Replier Classification
let us measure the correlation between tweet-level features
(reply count, retweet count, and like count)     Once we identify potentially targeted tweets, we can attempt
                                                                     to detect, among the accounts that reply to them, those thatand the corresponding reply-level engagement counts. As
                                                                 are engaged in coordinated activity. Distinguishing authen-each original tweet can have many replies, there are many
                                                                                tic replies from inauthentic ones poses a non-trivial chal-more replies than original tweets. We therefore calculate
                                                                  lenge, given that inauthentic accounts attempt to create anthe mean correlation between pairs of tweet/reply engage-
                                                             impression of authenticity. For this task, we train a super-ment features across 10 random samples of replies matching
                                                               vised replier classifier using the targeted tweet dataset.the number of original tweets. The correlations are all very
small (around 0.001), confirming that reply engagement is
not a mere reflection of tweet popularity.                        Classifier Features
  We previously defined targeted tweets as those that re-    We engineer features for each replier from their profile meta-
ceive five or more replies from IO accounts. Let us test the       data and their replies to the targeted tweets. Starting with
robustness of our classifier with respect to this definition by       profile metadata, we calculate the age of repliers by subtract-
considering a range of threshold values between five and 20      ing the account creation date from the date of the last reply
replies from IO accounts. This filters down the set of tar-     by the account. As illustrated in Fig. 8(A), most IO repli-
geted tweets and corresponding control tweets. We follow       ers are relatively new accounts, with a median age of 0.37
the same procedure described above to construct the classi-      years compared to 2.08 years for normal repliers. Despite
fication dataset, extract the features, and train and evaluate       their relatively young age, IO repliers display a higher me-
the classifier. Fig. 7 reports the mean precision, recall, F1,      dian number of followers (282) and followings (380) com-
and AUC from 10-fold cross-validation. While we observe      pared to normal repliers, whose medians are 114 and 292,
slight increases as the criterion for defining targeted tweets       respectively (Figure 8(B, C)). However, IO repliers exhibit
becomes more stringent, the results appear to be robust with      lower activity levels (original tweets + replies + quotes +
respect to this parameter.                                           retweets), with a median of 699 compared to 4406 for nor-
  Next, let us evaluate the generality of the classifier by test-     mal repliers (Figure 8(D)).
ing how well a model trained on one campaign performs       To leverage these key differences between IO and nor-
when tested on other campaigns. First, we split the classifi-     mal repliers, we create four features specific to profile meta-
cation dataset into six subsets: one for each of the top five       data: age, follower rate, following rate, and
campaigns, based on the number of targeted tweets, and one     activity rate. Since the numbers of followers/follow-
with data aggregated from the remaining campaigns. Sec-      ing and the activity are correlated with an account’s age, we
ond, we train campaign-specific models on each of these      normalize the rate features by the age of the account.
datasets, as in the original tweet classification setup. Finally,       Each replier may be involved in one or more replies to
we evaluate the models on test data from each dataset. In the      multiple targeted tweets. Therefore, we create a number
diagonal of Table 4 we report F1 values when the model       of features that summarize the characteristics of the set of
trained on one campaign is tested on the same campaign       replies generated by each replier, including replies to multi-
(mean across 10-fold cross-validation). The off-diagonal F1       ple targeted tweets. These features are based on eight reply


                                                   1592


===== PDF p.8 =====
Figure 9: Permutation feature importance for replier clas-
                                                                                     sifier. We report the median (orange line), 50% confidence
                                                                      interval (box), and 99.3% confidence interval (whiskers) of
                                                                 the drop in F1 score when each feature/attribute is shuffled.
                                                      Boxes with the same color indicate attributes in the same
                                                                   feature set. Larger values indicate higher importance.

Figure 8: Differences between complementary cumulative
distributions of IO and normal replier metadata: (A) age,
(B) following count, (C) follower count, and (D) activ-      balance leads to poor classification, which can be addressed
ity, as measured by the sum of the numbers of original       in two ways. First, we downsampled the normal repliers by
tweets, replies, quotes, and retweets. The distributions are       creating 10 different balanced datasets. Each includes all the
significantly different in all cases according to Kolmogorov-     IO repliers and an equal number (7,670) of normal repliers,
Smirnov tests (p < 10−6).                                  sampled without replacement. We train and test the model on
                                                          each balanced dataset using 10-fold cross-validation and re-
                                                                  port the average performance score. As a second approach,
attributes, which we organize into four sets, just like those     we over sampled the IO repliers by splitting the data into
listed in Table 1. The only criterion that distinguishes how       train and test sets, then replicating the minority class. Repli-
these features are calculated in the tweet versus the replier       cation occurs only in the training data, to avoid data leakage.
classification task is the reply set — all replies to a tweet in    We run 10-fold cross-validation on the resulting dataset. The
the former case and all replies by a replier in the latter.               first approach might eliminate some potential false positives
  Given a set of replies, the replier classifier features are   — normal repliers with similar reply behavior — potentially
calculated as for the tweet classifier, with two exceptions.     making the task easier. In the second approach, the model is
First, the delay of each reply is computed with respect to the       tested on data that still maintains the class imbalance, po-
timestamp of the targeted tweet to which the reply was di-       tentially overfitting the training data. This approach is also
rected. Second, cosine similarity s for replier i is calculated     more expensive due to the large dataset. Given these comple-
for each pair (rti, rtj) where rti is a reply by i to a targeted      mentary disadvantages, below we report on both methods.
tweet t and rtj is a reply by a different user j to the same      We standardize the features with z-scores and report the
targeted tweet t. We obtain a distribution of these similar-     mean performance metrics obtained by different machine
ities ∪t∈T (i) ∪j∈J(t) s(rti, rtj) across the set J(t) of other       learning models: Logistic Regression, Random Forest, Ad-
users who reply to t and then across the set T(i) of targeted      aBoost, Decision Tree, and Naive Bayes. As in the tweet
tweets that receive a reply from i.                                       classifier, we tune the threshold to maximize the mean F1
  From the distribution of each attribute, we compute nine       across folds. Table 5 shows that all classifiers perform better
summary statistic features: range, 25/50/75 quartiles, inter-      with downsampling, and Random Forest (with 100 estimator
quartile range, maximum, minimum, mean, and entropy. We       trees) performs the best with both downsampling and over-
do not calculate standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis      sampling. Therefore, let us focus on this model — Random
because they are not defined for many repliers who are in-       Forest trained with downsampling — for further analysis.
volved in a single reply to a single targeted tweet.               To test the contribution of each feature to the replier clas-
  We end up with four profile metadata features and 8×9 =         sifier, we follow the same procedure as for the tweet clas-
72 reply-level features, for a total of 76 features.                       sifier. However, here we report the averages across the 10
                                                            balanced dataset. Table 6 reports on mean 10-fold cross-
Results                                                                   validation scores for Random Forest trained and tested on
The targeted tweet dataset is highly imbalanced with 0.8%      each profile metadata feature and reply feature set. Fig. 9
IO repliers (7,670 vs. 874,248 normal repliers). Such an im-       reports on the results of a permutation feature importance


                                                   1593


===== PDF p.9 =====
Downsampling          Prec.         Rec.        F1      AUC
                             Logistic Regression   0.89 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00   0.93 ± 0.00
                     Random Forest       0.93 ± 0.00   0.92 ± 0.00   0.92 ± 0.00   0.97 ± 0.00
                        AdaBoost            0.90 ± 0.00   0.90 ± 0.00   0.90 ± 0.00   0.96 ± 0.00
                           Decision Tree        0.88 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00   0.88 ± 0.00
                         Naive Bayes          0.62 ± 0.02   0.86 ± 0.02   0.68 ± 0.00   0.87 ± 0.00
                        Oversampling        Precision      Recall        F1      AUC
                             Logistic Regression   0.27 ± 0.00   0.48 ± 0.01   0.35 ± 0.00   0.94 ± 0.00
                     Random Forest       0.70 ± 0.00   0.72 ± 0.01   0.71 ± 0.00   0.96 ± 0.00
                        AdaBoost            0.47 ± 0.02   0.54 ± 0.02   0.50 ± 0.01   0.96 ± 0.00
                           Decision Tree        0.55 ± 0.01   0.51 ± 0.01   0.53 ± 0.01   0.75 ± 0.01
                         Naive Bayes          0.06 ± 0.00   0.50 ± 0.03   0.10 ± 0.00   0.86 ± 0.00

Table 5: Results of different algorithms in the replier classification task. Top: downsampling of the majority class (normal
repliers). Bottom: oversampling of the minority class (IO repliers). We present standard errors rounded to the second decimal
point.


      Features set          Prec.   Rec.   F1  AUC
    activity rate     0.60    0.63   0.61   0.65
    following rate    0.54    0.52   0.53   0.56
    follower rate     0.55    0.51   0.53   0.56
    age                  0.58    0.66   0.61   0.66
     Delay                 0.57    0.60   0.58   0.62
     Engagement           0.57    0.57   0.53   0.63
       Entities               0.63    0.50   0.53   0.63
       Similarity             0.85    0.84   0.84   0.92
      All features           0.93    0.92   0.92   0.97

Table 6: Contributions of different profile features and reply-
level feature sets to the Random Forest replier classifier. The                                                             Figure 10: (A) Distributions of cosine similarity attributes
last row corresponds to the results in Table 5 (top).                                                                     for replies by IO and normal repliers. (B) Similarity distri-
                                                                butions for normal repliers (blue, same as in panel (A)) and
                                                                 the 10 different samples (different colored outlines).
test. Both analyses consistently shows that the similarity
among replies is the most important attribute. To help in-
terpret this finding, Fig. 10(A) compares the distributions of                                                     model trained on one campaign is tested on the same cam-
similarity attributes for replies by IO versus normal repliers.                                                            paign (mean across 10-fold cross-validation and 10 different
Replies by IO repliers are more similar to other replies to the                                                            balanced datasets). The off-diagonal F1 values are obtained
same tweets, compared to those by normal repliers. This is                                                 when the model trained on one of the balanced datasets (se-
a pattern that the classifier can exploit. We also observe in                                                                   lected to maximize F1) is tested on other campaigns. We
Fig. 10(B) that the downsampling process does not bias the                                                            observe that the campaign-specific models tend to perform
similarity distributions.                                                              well both on their own campaigns and across campaigns.
  So far, we have tested the replier classifier on balanced                                                   The Serbia campaign is an exception, where we observe
datasets. In more realistic scenarios, the data may be imbal-                                                            a sizable deterioration in cross-campaign evaluation. These
anced with different ratios of coordinated and organic repli-                                                                       results suggest that the features of the replier classifier are
ers. To test whether the classifier can generalize to such sce-                                                                   relevant across different campaigns.
narios, we train and test with 10-fold cross-validation using
different positive to negative data ratios ranging from 1:5
                                                                   Discussionto 1:45. Fig. 11 shows that precision and AUC are robust to
class imbalance, whereas recall (and consequently F1) drops      Understanding the engagement patterns of IO operators is
as the class imbalance increases. While this result indicates       crucial for identifying vulnerable individuals and devising
that balancing the classes affects recall, we also found that       effective countermeasures. Our Serbia and Egypt campaign
training on the original imbalanced dataset leads to a high      case studies reveal that journalists, state officials, news me-
false-positive rate and deteriorated precision.                        dia, and politicians are primary targets for coordinated IO
  Next, we test the generalizability of the replier classifier       attacks. These attacks can originate either from within the
by training and testing the model across different campaigns.       targeted country or from other nation-states. Our findings
Similarly to the tweet classifier, we prepare six campaign       further suggest that influential individuals may serve as po-
datasets: five selected based on the highest number of IO        tential sensors for identifying IO campaigns.
repliers and one by aggregating the remaining campaigns.       To  detect  coordinated  reply  attacks, we  propose  a
In the diagonal of Table 7 we report F1 values when the      campaign-independent and general machine learning frame-


                                                   1594


===== PDF p.10 =====
that offer similar reply functionalities, including Facebook,
                                                             Threads, Mastodon, and Bluesky. However, the lack of IO
                                                                   datasets prevents us from evaluating our framework on these
                                                                 platforms.
                                                     Our study has potential impacts on platform integrity and
                                                                public dialogue. First, it reveals that what looks like public
                                                                  reactions may in fact be efforts to manipulate a target and
                                                                 other participants of a genuine conversation. For instance,
                                                                      politicians may be posting on social media to solicit pub-
                                                                                lic opinions. Coordinated replies may skew their perception
                                                                of public sentiment (Stewart et al. 2019). Such replies can
                                                                     further distort genuine discourse if portrayed by the me-
                                                                 dia as reflective of public opinion. Secondly, coordinated
                                                                      replies enable malicious actors to maximize the public ex-
Figure 11: Replier classification scores for different data im-      posure of their posts by exploiting the popularity of their
balance ratios.                                                          targets, thereby amplifying their influence. This pollutes on-
                                                                       line dialogues with spam, influence campaigns, and divisive
                                 Test                          messages that harass the targeted individuals or provoke the     Train
          SA   RS   TR   EG  HN   Other             public. Such behavior may also alienate the targets and pre-
    SA      0.96   0.79   0.86   0.86   0.55    0.90            vent them from sharing their opinion on social media. For all
    RS      0.53   0.89   0.76   0.53   0.48    0.49                                                                 these reasons, platforms should protect the targets from co-
    TR      0.90   0.91   0.92   0.84   0.84    0.85
                                                               ordinated reply attacks. The research community may use    EG     0.92   0.90   0.88   0.92   0.74    0.90
                                                            our methodology to detect coordinated reply attacks and    HN     0.93   0.97   0.98   0.89   0.95    0.91
      Other   0.95   0.89   0.92   0.89   0.72    0.94            study the campaigns, perpetrators, and their potential effects
                                                     on the individuals. Our methodology may also guide the de-
Table 7: F1 scores obtained from same-campaign (diago-      velopment of countermeasures by social media platforms.
nal entries, in bold) and cross-campaign evaluations of the                                                              Limitations.  Our study has several limitations, some of
replier classifier. HN=Honduras; see Table 4 for other coun-                                                       which are mentioned below:
try codes.
                                                                             • We define control tweets as those posted by previously
                                                                      targeted authors. This might lead to some biases. Our
                                                                       collection of replies to these control tweets was limited
work consisting of a tweet classifier and a replier classifier.
                                                        by the collection time, which could in theory affect the
First, the tweet classifier identifies tweets that receive co-
                                                                         distributions of numbers and delays of replies. However,
ordinated replies, narrowing the scope for further investiga-
                                                      more than 99.8% of control tweets were posted at least
tion. This classifier is robust to variations in targeted tweet
                                                        13 days before our collection of replies, and only 2%
popularity and general across various campaigns. An anal-
                                                                   of replies to IO tweets arrived after more than 13 days.
ysis of the features used by the classifier indicates that the
                                                                        Similarly, only 1.2% of replies to IO tweets arrived after
level of engagement received by the replies is the most dis-
                                                      more than 32 days, and more than 90% of control tweets
tinguishing factor.
                                                          were at least this old at collection time. Therefore, the
  Second, the replier classifier identifies operators engaged
                                                                       collection time did not significantly bias these distribu-
in coordinated reply attacks. In addition to generalizing
                                                                            tions. Nevertheless, these features could be affected by
across campaigns like the tweet classifier, the replier clas-
                                                               time-dependent factors, such as the deletion of accounts
sifier is also capable of handling different levels of class im-
                                                                   or replies. As a result, our analysis may be subject to po-
balance. The most significant features for replier classifica-
                                                                              tential survivor bias, which could limit the applicability
tion are those describing the distribution of similarity be-
                                                                   of the proposed classifiers to real-world scenarios.
tween replies from a replier and those from other repliers to
                                                                             • The median time difference between the end of a cam-the same tweets.
                                                               paign (last targeted tweet) and the start of the control data  This study presents a proof of concept for the proposed
                                                                                         (first control tweet) is approximately 21 months. Conse-classifiers, evaluated on a number of IO campaigns that have
                                                                      quently, the control data may not be representative of thebeen detected and taken down by Twitter. Our experiments
                                                                      targeted tweets in terms of temporal alignment.were carried out on compute nodes equipped with two 64-
core AMD EPYC 7742 2.25 GHz CPUs and 512 GB of         • The dataset was  artificially balanced for training the
RAM. The efficacy, efficiency, and robustness of our clas-         tweet classifier. Other approaches to handle class imbal-
sifiers would ideally be validated in the wild. Unfortunately,         ance should be explored.
due to changes in data-sharing policies from X/Twitter, we         • In feature construction, we focus solely on direct replies,
are unable to conduct such tests.                                       for both IO and control data. This approach is due to
  Our models could be developed into monitoring tools for          the fact that the classification dataset contains only di-
enhanced online safety. Although the proposed framework is           rect replies to targeted tweets, forcing us to ignore that a
designed for Twitter, it could be extended to other platforms          reply thread can form a tree-like structure.


                                                   1595


===== PDF p.11 =====
• The classifiers could be enhanced by incorporating addi-      Ezzeddine, F.; Ayoub, O.; Giordano, S.; Nogara, G.; Sbe-
   tional features, such as distributions of account age and         ity, I.; Ferrara, E.; and Luceri, L. 2023. Exposing Influence
   other profile metadata for the tweet classifier, and of the     Campaigns in the Age of LLMs: A Behavioral-based AI Ap-
   number of replies by each account for the replier classi-      proach to Detecting State-Sponsored Trolls. EPJ Data Sci-
    fier. We identify these enhancements as future research.        ence, 12(1): 46.
 • While our main objective is to detect coordinated replies,       Farkas, J.; and Bastos, M. 2018. IRA Propaganda on Twitter:
   an attack that is frequently employed by information op-      Stoking Antagonism and Tweeting Local News. In Proc. 9th
   erations, we acknowledge that it may be also used by        Intl. Conf. on Social Media and Society, 281–285.
   regular social media users organizing among themselves      Feng, F.; Yang, Y.; Cer, D.; Arivazhagan, N.; and Wang,
   for activism. Thus, we suggest that our classifiers should     W. 2020. Language-agnostic BERT Sentence Embedding.
   complement human investigation when employed in the      arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.01852.
   wild. Furthermore, they should not be misused to label                                                                    Ferrara, E.; Chang, H.; Chen, E.-P.; Muric, G.; and Patel,
   users as information operation accounts without thor-                                                                                   J. 2020.  Characterizing Social Media Manipulation in the
   ough human verification.                                                     2020 U.S. Presidential Election. First Monday, 25(11).
                                                                Gallagher, R. J.; Frank, M. R.; Mitchell, L.; Schwartz, A. J.;           Acknowledgements
                                                          Reagan, A. J.; Danforth, C. M.; and Dodds, P. S. 2021. Gen-
This work was supported  in  part by Knight Founda-       eralized word shift graphs: a method for visualizing and ex-
tion, Craig Newmark  Philanthropies, DARPA  (contract       plaining pairwise comparisons between texts. EPJ Data Sci-
HR001121C0169), and Lilly Endowment, Inc., through its       ence, 10(1): 4.
support for the Indiana University Pervasive Technology In-                                                                  Hristakieva, K.; Cresci, S.; Da San Martino, G.; Conti, M.;
stitute.                                                       and Nakov, P. 2022. The Spread of Propaganda by Coordi-
                                                              nated Communities on Social Media. In Proceedings of the
                References                           14th ACM Web Science Conference (WebSci), 191–201.
Addawood, A.; Badawy, A.; Lerman, K.; and Ferrara, E.     Hudson Smith, D.; Ehrett, C.; and Warren, P. L. 2024. Unsu-
2019.  Linguistic Cues to Deception: Identifying Political      pervised Detection of Coordinated Information Operations
Trolls on Social Media.  In Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf. on Web       in the Wild. Technical Report 2401.06205, arXiv.
and Social Media, volume 13, 15–25.                                                           Im, J.; Chandrasekharan, E.; Sargent, J.; Lighthammer, P.;
Alizadeh, M.; Shapiro, J. N.; Buntain, C.; and Tucker, J. A.      Denby, T.; Bhargava, A.; Hemphill, L.; Jurgens, D.; and
2020.  Content-based Features Predict Social Media Influ-       Gilbert, E. 2020.  Still Out There: Modeling and Identify-
ence Operations. Science Advances, 6(30).                      ing Russian Troll Accounts on Twitter. In 12th ACM Conf.
Bradshaw, S.; and Howard, P. 2017. Troops, Trolls and Trou-     on Web Science.
blemakers: A Global Inventory of Organized Social Media      Kong, Q.; Calderon, P.; Ram, R.; Boichak, O.; and Rizoiu,
Manipulation. Technical report, University of Oxford.          M.-A. 2023.  Interval-censored Transformer Hawkes: De-
Bush, D. 2020.   Fighting Like a Lion for Serbia: An       tecting Information Operations using the Reaction of Social
Analysis of Government-Linked Influence Operations in      Systems. In Proc. ACM Web Conf., 1813—-1821.
Serbia.  https://fsi-live.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/s3fs-       Luceri, L.; Giordano, S.; and Ferrara, E. 2020.  Detecting
public/serbia march twitter.pdf. Accessed: 30 Oct 2023.          Troll Behavior via Inverse Reinforcement Learning: A Case
DiResta, R.; Kheradpir, T.; and Miller, C. 2020.  “The      Study of Russian Trolls in the 2016 US Election.  In Intl.
World   is  Swimming  in  a  Sea  of  Rumors”:  Influ-     AAAI Conf. on Web and Social Media, volume 14, 417–427.
ence  Operations  Associated  with  El  Fagr Newspaper      Matthews, J.; and Goerzen, M. 2019. Black Hat Trolling,
(Egypt).    Technical  report,  Stanford  Internet  Obser-      White Hat Trolling, and Hacking the Attention Landscape.
vatory.   https://fsi-live.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/s3fs-       In Companion Proc. WWW Conf., 523–528.
public/egypt whitepaper.pdf. Accessed: 8 Nov 2023.                                                           Merhi, M.; Rajtmajer, S.; and Lee, D. 2023.  Information
Dutt, R.; Deb, A.; and Ferrara, E. 2018. “Senator, We Sell      Operations in Turkey: Manufacturing Resilience with Free
Ads”: Analysis of the 2016 Russian Facebook Ads Cam-       Twitter Accounts.  In Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf. on Web and
paign. In Intl. Conf. Intell. Info. Techn., 151–168.                Social Media.
Elmas, T. 2023.  Analyzing Activity and Suspension Pat-      Neudert, L.-M.; Howard, P.; and Kollanyi, B. 2019. Sourc-
terns of Twitter Bots Attacking Turkish Twitter Trends by a      ing and Automation of Political News and Information Dur-
Longitudinal Dataset. In Companion Proc. ACM Web Conf.,      ing Three European Elections. Social Media + Society, 5(3).
1404–1412.                                                      Ng, L. H. X.; Moffitt, J.; and Carley, K. M. 2022. Coordi-
Elmas, T.; Overdorf, R.; and Aberer, K. 2022. Characteriz-      nated through a Web of Images: Analysis of Image-based In-
ing Retweet Bots: The Case of Black Market Accounts. In       fluence Operations from China, Iran, Russia, and Venezuela.
Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf. on Web and Social Media, 171–182.       Preprint arXiv:2206.03576.
Elmas, T.; Overdorf, R.; and Aberer, K. 2023. Misleading      Nwala, A. C.; Flammini, A.; and Menczer, F. 2023. A Lan-
Repurposing on Twitter. In Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf. on Web      guage Framework for Modeling Social Media Account Be-
and Social Media, 209–220.                                       havior. EPJ Data Science, 12(1): 33.


                                                   1596


===== PDF p.12 =====
Office of the Director of National Intelligence. 2017. As-     Thomas, K.; Akhawe, D.; Bailey, M.; Boneh, D.; Bursztein,
sessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elec-       E.; Consolvo, S.; Dell, N.; Durumeric, Z.; Kelley, P. G.;
tions. Technical report, National Intelligence Council.          Kumar, D.; McCoy, D.; Meiklejohn, S.; Ristenpart, T.; and
Ong, J. C.; and Caba˜nes, J. V. A. 2018.   Architects of       Stringhini, G. 2021. SoK: Hate, Harassment, and the Chang-
Networked Disinformation: Behind the Scenes of Troll Ac-      ing Landscape of Online Abuse. In Proc. IEEE Symposium
counts and Fake News Production in the Philippines. Tech.     on Security and Privacy (SP), 247–267.
rep., UMass Amherst. https://doi.org/10.7275/2cq4-5396.        Torres-Lugo, C.; Pote, M.; Nwala, A.; and Menczer, F. 2022.
Pacheco, D.; Hui, P.-M.; Torres-Lugo, C.; Truong, B. T.;      Manipulating Twitter through Deletions. In Proc. Intl. AAAI
Flammini, A.; and Menczer, F. 2021. Uncovering Coordi-      Conf. on Web and Social Media, 1029–1039.
nated Networks on Social Media: Methods and Case Stud-      Uyheng, J.; Cruickshank, I. J.; and Carley, K. M. 2022. Map-
ies.  In Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf. on Web and Social Media,      ping State-sponsored Information Operations with Multi-
volume 21, 455–466.                                      view Modularity Clustering. EPJ Data Science, 11(1): 25.
Pamment, J.; and Smith, V. 2022.  Attributing Information     Weedon, J.; Nuland, W.; and Stamos, A. 2017. Information
Influence Operations: Identifying those Responsible for Ma-      Operations and Facebook. Technical report, Facebook. Ac-
licious Behavior Online. Technical report, NATO Strategic       cessed: 2025-04-08.
Communications Center of Excellence.                         Woolley, S. C.; and Howard, P. N. 2018. Conclusion: Po-
Rowett, G. 2018. The Strategic Need to Understand Online        litical Parties, Politicians, and Computational Propaganda.
Memes and Modern Information Warfare Theory. In Proc.       In Computational propaganda: Political parties, politicians,
IEEE Big Data.                                         and political manipulation on social media, 241–248. Ox-
Saeed, M. H.; Ali, S.; Blackburn, J.; Cristofaro, E. D.; Zan-       ford University Press.
nettou, S.; and Stringhini, G. 2022. TrollMagnifier: Detect-      Yang, K.-C.; and Menczer, F. 2024.  Anatomy of an AI-
ing State-Sponsored Troll Accounts on Reddit.  In Proc.      powered Malicious Social Botnet. Journal of Quantitative
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 2161–2175.      Description: Digital Media, 4.
Senate  Select Committee on  Intelligence. 2019.   Re-      Zannettou, S.; Caulfield, T.; Bradlyn, B.; De Cristofaro, E.;
port  of  the  Select Committee on  Intelligence  United       Stringhini, G.; and Blackburn, J. 2020. Characterizing the
States Senate on Russian Active Measures Campaigns     Use of Images in State-Sponsored Information Warfare Op-
and Interference  in the 2016 U.S. Election Volume  2:       erations by Russian Trolls on Twitter. Proc. Intl. AAAI Conf.
Russia’s Use  of  Social Media with Additional Views.     on Web and Social Media.
https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/            Zannettou, S.; Caulfield, T.; De Cristofaro, E.; Sirivianos,
documents/Report Volume2.pdf. Accessed: 2024-01-16.        M.; Stringhini, G.; and Blackburn, J. 2019a. Disinformation
Shao, C.; Ciampaglia, G. L.; Varol, O.; Yang, K.; Flammini,      Warfare: Understanding State-sponsored Trolls on Twitter
A.; and Menczer, F. 2018. The Spread of Low-credibility      and their Influence on the Web. In Companion Proc. WWW
Content by Social bots. Nature Communications, 9: 4787.        Conf., 218–226.
Sharma, K.; Zhang, Y.; Ferrara, E.; and Liu, Y. 2021. Identi-      Zannettou, S.; Caulfield,  T.; Setzer, W.; Sirivianos, M.;
fying Coordinated Accounts on Social Media through Hid-       Stringhini, G.; and Blackburn, J. 2019b. Who Let the Trolls
den Influence and Group Behaviours. In 27th ACM SIGKDD      Out? Towards Understanding State-sponsored Trolls.   In
Conf. on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, 1441–1451.      Proc. 10th ACM Conf. on Web Science, 353–362.
Stanford Internet Observatory. 2021.   Published reports
of the Stanford Internet Observatory.  https://github.com/                    Ethics Checklist
stanfordio/publications. Accessed: 2025-04-08.
                                                                       1. For most authors...
Starbird, K.; Arif, A.; and Wilson, T. 2019. Disinformation
as Collaborative Work: Surfacing the Participatory Nature of         (a) Would answering this research question advance sci-
Strategic Information Operations. Proc. ACM Hum. Com-           ence without violating social contracts, such as violat-
put. Interact.                                                        ing privacy norms, perpetuating unfair profiling, exac-
                                                                       erbating the socio-economic divide, or implying disre-
Stewart, A.; Mosleh, M.; Diakonova, M.; Arechar, A.; Rand,
                                                                      spect to societies or cultures? Yes
D.; and Plotkin, J. 2019. Information gerrymandering and
undemocratic decisions. Nature, 573(7772): 117–121.              (b) Do your main claims in the abstract and introduction
                                                                      accurately reflect the paper’s contributions and scope?
Stewart, L. G.; Arif, A.; and Starbird, K. 2018. Examining
                                                            Yes
Trolls and Polarization with a Retweet Network.  In Proc.
                                                                          (c) Do you clarify how the proposed methodological ap-ACM WSDM Workshop on Misinformation and Misbehavior
                                                                proach is appropriate for the claims made? YesMining on the Web (MIS2). https://api.semanticscholar.org/
CorpusID:44033303.                                                (d) Do you clarify what are possible artifacts in the data
                                                                     used, given population-specific distributions? YesThomas, E.; Thompson, N.; and Wanless, A. 2020.  The
Challenges of Countering Influence Operations.  Techni-         (e) Did you describe the limitations of your work? Yes
cal report, Carnegie Endowment for Intl. Peace. Accessed:           (f) Did you discuss any potential negative societal im-
2025-04-08.                                                          pacts of your work? NA


                                                   1597


===== PDF p.13 =====
(g) Did you discuss any potential misuse of your work?         (a)  If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the cre-
   NA                                                               ators? Yes.
  (h) Did you describe steps taken to prevent or mitigate po-         (b) Did you mention the license of the assets? NA
      tential negative outcomes of the research, such as data         (c) Did you include any new assets in the supplemental
     and model documentation, data anonymization, re-            material or as a URL? Yes. We provide link to data
     sponsible release, access control, and the reproducibil-          and code as URL.
      ity of findings? Yes                                                                      (d) Did you discuss whether and how consent was ob-
   (i) Have you read the ethics review guidelines and en-            tained from people whose data you’re using/curating?
     sured that your paper conforms to them? Yes                    Yes; this is addressed by IRB exemption.
2. Additionally, if your study involves hypotheses testing...          (e) Did you discuss whether the data you are using/cu-
                                                                          rating contains personally identifiable information or
  (a) Did you clearly state the assumptions underlying all                                                                       offensive content? Yes. The Twitter profiles are public
      theoretical results? NA                                                                      information.
  (b) Have you provided justifications for all theoretical re-                                                                                  (f)  If you are curating or releasing new datasets, did you
      sults? NA                                                                      discuss how you intend to make your datasets FAIR?
  (c) Did you discuss competing hypotheses or theories that            Yes. The link to data is included in the paper so that
     might challenge or complement your theoretical re-          anyone can access it, including the details of the meta-
      sults? NA                                                       data in the Datasheet to make  it interoperable and
  (d) Have you considered alternative mechanisms or expla-             reusable.
     nations that might account for the same outcomes ob-         (g)  If you are curating or releasing new datasets, did you
     served in your study? NA                                         create a Datasheet for the Dataset? The Datasheet is
  (e) Did you address potential biases or limitations in your             available at doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.13896308
      theoretical framework? NA                                    6. Additionally, if you used crowdsourcing or conducted
  (f) Have you related your theoretical results to the existing          research with human subjects, without compromising
      literature in social science? NA                              anonymity...
  (g) Did you discuss the implications of your theoretical         (a) Did you include the full text of instructions given to
      results for policy, practice, or further research in the             participants and screenshots? NA
      social science domain? Answer                                                                      (b) Did you describe any potential participant risks, with
3. Additionally, if you are including theoretical proofs...              mentions of Institutional Review Board (IRB) ap-
                                                                     provals? NA
  (a) Did you state the full set of assumptions of all theoret-
                                                                          (c) Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to      ical results? NA
                                                                          participants and the total amount spent on participant
  (b) Did you include complete proofs of all theoretical re-                                                               compensation? NA
      sults? NA
                                                                      (d) Did you discuss how data is stored, shared, and dei-
4. Additionally, if you ran machine learning experiments...             dentified? NA
  (a) Did you include  the code,  data, and  instructions
     needed to reproduce the main experimental results (ei-                     Ethical Impact
      ther in the supplemental material or as a URL)? Yes        This  study  has been  granted exemption from  Institu-
  (b) Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits,       tional Review Board review (Indiana University proto-
     hyperparameters, how they were chosen)? Yes              cols 12410 and 1102004860). Our  results can be  re-
                                                         produced using code available at github.com/osome-iu/io-  (c) Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the ran-
                                                                 coordinated-replies and data available at doi.org/10.5281/    dom seed after running experiments multiple times)?
                                                          zenodo.13896308. The collection and release of the dataset     Yes. Our experiments report averages across 10-fold
                                                     comply with the Twitter platform’s terms of service. To mit-      cross-validation as well as standard errors.
                                                                     igate the potential ethical risks of analyzing human subjects,
  (d) Did you include the total amount of computation and                                              we only rely on the data of public Twitter accounts do not
      the type of resources used (e.g., type of GPUs, internal                                                               include any raw data. We only manually inspect the profiles
      cluster, or cloud provider)? Yes                                                                of the targets of the attacks, who are public figures and con-
  (e) Do you justify how the proposed evaluation is suffi-        stitute the vulnerable group our study aims to protect. We
      cient and appropriate to the claims made? Yes              provide our annotation data about these profiles for repro-
  (f) Do you discuss what is “the cost” of misclassification       ducibility. Our classification models do not use any person-
     and fault (in)tolerance? Yes. We recommend manual       ally identifiable information. We only report aggregated re-
     inspection to complement our classifiers.                       sults.

5. Additionally, if you are using existing assets (e.g., code,
   data, models) or curating/releasing new assets, without
  compromising anonymity...


                                                   1598
