27:14
F. Zhou et al.
Other features of the cascade graph include node degree/eigenvector/closeness/betweenness
centrality, authority/hub score, graph depth/density/diameter, structural diversity/virality, and
various variants of the same such as mean, median, percentile, entropy, standard deviation, and so
on. More examples can be found in the supplementary materials [249].
3.2.2
Global Graph. Apart from the cascade graph, which presents the local spread of infor-
mation, many works studied global graphs [39, 60, 66, 147, 164], the definition of which depends
on the application scenarios. For example, in social networks, the most common global graph is
the follower/followee graph or friendship graph [83]. There also exist many other types of global
graphs—e.g., [83] retrieved a sparse hidden friend graph from the dense follower/followee graph
and [84] defined a co-participation graph from Digg comments. Based on the interactions between
users (retweet, comment, like/dislike, etc.), from Twitter an interaction global graph can be con-
structed, e.g., a global graph based on historical mentioning relationships between users [60, 61,
121, 165, 222]. From APS, based on the interactions between authors (cite, collaborate, etc.), a citing
global graph or collaborating global graph was constructed in Reference [49]. These interaction
global graphs can be useful in various prediction tasks, especially when the explicit social graph is
unavailable, and a suitable choice to represent the actual diffusion of information from historical
behaviors [203].
Definition 3.2 (Global Graph). A global graph Gд = (Vд, Eд) is a collection of Vд nodes and a set
of Eд ⊆Vд × Vд edges representing the relationships between nodes, e.g., friends or collaborators.
Based on this simple definition, other types of graph can be defined, e.g.: (i) a directed graph
with edges indicating the direction from one to another, e.g., unilateral relationships such as fol-
lower/followee in social networks; (ii) a weighted graph whose nodes or edges are associated with
assigned weights, e.g., multiple times of interactions between users [225]; (iii) a heterogeneous
graph whose nodes or edges have more than one type of attribute, e.g., a graph with authors, pa-
pers, venues as nodes, and publish, cite, co-authorship as edges; (iv) an attributed graph whose nodes
or edges have associated features, e.g., the metadata of information items, the texts of tweets, the
titles/abstracts of papers, the embeddings of images, and so on.
A global graph provides us a macro perspective to analyze how information disseminates to in-
dividuals and to communities, and how information cascades grow their popularity in the context
of their positions in the global graph. Compared to information diffusion in the cascade graph
only—which shows the local spread patterns for one specific cascade—the global graph describes
all the relationships between users and potential routes for diffusion. For example, in social net-
working platforms, besides various external stimuli such as recommendations from the system,
key words search from users, and so on, information items are primarily discovered and dissemi-
nated through the users’ social networks [181].
The left portion of Figure 9 shows an example of global graph, which is composed of the five
largest cascades in the Weibo dataset. Nodes in the graph are individual users while edges represent
the retweeting relationships between users. As it shows, a large number of users not only partic-
ipate in one cascade but also act as bridges between separate cascades. The historical behaviors,
personal preferences, and communities of users can further help us to identify the roles of users in
the cascade graphs [191, 208]. A complete global graph can be very large, e.g., a retweeting global
graph retrieved from Weibo has more than 6M nodes (users) and 15M edges (retweet actions),
while the citing global graph retrieved from APS has 422K nodes (authors) and 54M edges (cite
actions). It is noteworthy that nodes in cascade graph may not necessarily appear in the global
graph. For example, in Twitter, a user can retweet posts from other users who are not her/his
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
