27:6
F. Zhou et al.
Fig. 3. Left axis: growth trends of cascades over time, the points are means and the bars on each point
are variances. Right axis: Pearson correlation coefficients between observed popularity and ground truth
popularity over time. Plots are based on three datasets: Twitter hashtags (left), Weibo tweets (middle), and
APS papers (right), each have 1.3M, 119K, and 452K information cascades, respectively.
information about the items/users is available. Take tweets as an example: in ex-ante prediction, the
available information includes: tweet’s content (e.g., purely text, emojis, embedded images/videos,
URLs/hashtags), profile of the user who posts this tweet (e.g., name, bio, location, join date, number
of followers/followees), the time when this tweet was published, and so on. Prediction before pub-
lication is beneficial in many downstream tasks such as advertising and marketing, as one prefers
to know how much attention and/or profit a specific advertisement would have in the near fu-
ture [171]. Based on predicted results, one can invest in items with highest (potential) influence to
spread information to larger audiences, thus maximizing the business interests of corresponding
products.
Although a priori popularity prediction is attractive, reliable prediction requires an exhaustive
set of features, which is often unavailable, sensitive, and hard to obtain in real-world scenarios.
Instead, if one could peek into the early stage of a cascade’s evolving process, prediction would
become much easier [181]. Consider a time interval [t0,tp] of the life-cycle of an information item,
and let [to,tp] denote the interval we can observe, where to < tp is the observation time. We cal-
culated the proportion of overall observed popularity N
i Pi (to) to the overall ground truth popu-
larity N
i Pi (tp) (values increased from 0 to 1 monotonically), and Pearson correlation coefficients
between every observed Pi (to) and prediction target Pi (tp). Figure 3 shows the results for three
large scale datasets: Twitter hashtags [207], Weibo tweets [29] and APS papers [174]. Clearly, for
all three datasets with the increase of observation time to, the prediction task becomes simpler—
coinciding with earlier findings [181] that a strong correlation exists between early and future
popularity. Figure 3 also reveals different collective increasing patterns among the three different
scenarios of information cascades: For Weibo tweets, the faster they gain attention from users, the
faster they faded owing to the newly emerged competitors; for Twitter hashtags, the popularity
last longer among users than it does for Weibo tweets; as for APS papers, the item evolving speeds
are in the middle.
Predicting the popularity after an item’s publication indicates how it is possible for an item to
be successful in spreading. The rationale is that information items that have successfully prop-
agated in their early stages tend to become popular—i.e., early patterns are indicative for long-
term popularity [181]. Previous works found that the similar, or even the same, content infor-
mation may vary significantly in terms of popularity [39]. This also raises questions about the
limitations of prediction models—e.g., is it a problem of insufficient data, or is it inherently unpre-
dictable [39, 136, 169, 175]? Is this because the innate quality of content has a minor impact, while
the social influence or other external factors govern the eventual popularity of items [145, 169]?
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
