A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances
27:13
Fig. 7. Two cascade graphs retrieved from APS dataset with popularity Pi ≈200. All the nodes of left cascade
graph are directly connected to the root node (Wiener index is 1.994). In contrast, the structure of the right
cascade is more viral, i.e., a large amount of nodes are connected to the root node indirectly (index is 2.605).
Fig. 8. Box plot of structural virality (Wiener index) by cascade popularity for Weibo (left) and APS (right).
The lines in boxes are median value, whereas boxes are quartile values of structural virality from lower to
upper. The relationship between cascade popularity and structural virality for Weibo tweets is neutral; on
the contrary, for APS papers, the correlation is quite positive.
so on, are limited in explaining whether an information item would be popular or not. For exam-
ple, non-viral cascades (or broadcast cascades, e.g., left graph in Figure 7) could have considerably
greater popularity in the end, although the virality value is very small at the beginning. In con-
trast, a viral cascade graph (e.g., right graph in Figure 7) not always results in a larger cascade—in
fact, the Pearson correlation coefficient between cascade popularity and their structural virality is
relatively low. This phenomenon implies that the initial structural features become less important
as cascades grow over time [39, 241].
To further investigate the relationship between cascade popularity and structural virality, we
draw box plots over the distribution of structural virality on different ranges of cascade popularity
for both Weibo and APS (cf. Figure 8), from which we make the important observation that the
popularity of microblogs is dominated by two different propagation mechanisms, i.e., broadcast
diffusion and word-of-mouth, dependent on the cascades’ eventual size. For cascades smaller than
3,000, the median value of structural virality grows slightly with cascade popularity (i.e., from 1.967
to 2.258). However, for tweets with popularity >3,000, their median structural virality decreased
to 2.053, which means one of the most important drivers for cascades to succeed comes from
the promotion of organizations or celebrities who have a large number of followers [11, 67]. In
other words, the dominant factor for very large cascades is the broadcast diffusion mechanism,
in which case users are more likely to directly interact with information sources (or important
intermediates) and thus the growth of cascade does not rely on viral spreading [51]. Interestingly,
the same trend can also be observed in scientific paper cascades, though their structural virality is
generally larger than Weibo tweets (3.779 vs. 2.164).
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
