A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances
27:15
Fig. 9. Left: a global graph retrieved from the five largest cascades in Weibo dataset. It contains 262,458
nodes and 324,540 edges. Edges from different cascades are in different colors. We can clearly see that these
cascades are not isolated. Right: an example of 1-reachable graph retrieved from Weibo dataset. Dark nodes
(red) come from a cascade graph Gc, where pale nodes are neighbors of the red nodes.
followers or followees. This limits the usability of models that rely only on the global graph [77,
218].
Previous studies have also highlighted the influence of social community, e.g., social reinforce-
ment and homophily of social contagions [6, 32, 139, 164]. As shown in References [207, 208],
the viral cascades often diffuse across more communities than non-viral cascades, i.e., they are
less likely to be trapped into a low number of communities. However, the analysis of the inter-
community diffusion patterns of tweets in Reference [191] demonstrated that the effects of com-
munity features are relatively small compared to other features such as past success and user
degrees.
3.2.3
r-reachable Graph. Based on the definition of cascade graph and global graph, we can
define a sub-graph retrieved from the global graph and named r-reachable graph:
Definition 3.3 (r-reachable Graph). Given a global graph Gд, and its cascade sub-graph Gc, an
r-reachable graph of Gc is defined as Gr
c = {Vr
c , Er
c }, where Vr
c contains (1) all nodes in Vc, and
(2) all nodes in Vд are within r-hops of nodes in Vc. For example, when r = 1, Vr
c contains all Vc
and all immediate neighbors of nodes in Vc.
The right portion of Figure 9 shows an example of r-reachable graph (r = 1), where dark nodes
and their interactions form the cascade graph. r-reachable graph tells us how many nodes are
exposed to the active nodes and their topology. The rationale behind modeling an r-reachable
graph is that the highly exposed nodes would potentially bring more nodes into this cascade in
the future [61].
Previous works have utilized r-reachable graph to facilitate the prediction of cascades’ popular-
ity [39, 135]. Global graph Gд and several 1-reachable graphs G1
c (a.k.a. border graph) from Weibo
retweet cascades were constructed in References [60, 61], extracting structural features from Gд
and G1
c to predict the popularity of tweets. A comparison of several structural and content fea-
tures in Reference [135] revealed that the number of nodes in the cascade graph and 1-reachable
graph are the two most predictive of 53 features in predicting the popularity of Twitter hashtags.
However, the construction and calculation of an r-reachable graph can be costly, e.g., for a cascade
graph with dozens of nodes (on average), its 2-reachable graph may contains tens of thousands of
nodes.
3.2.4
Discussion. The influence of the cascade graph’s early structure on the final item popu-
larity remains largely unclear, with neither of the standard structural feature selection approaches
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
