A Survey of Information Cascade Analysis: Models, Predictions, and Recent Advances
27:25
The deep fusion of temporal processes and content features (DFTC) model [124] predicts the
popularity of WeChat online articles. It first uses an LSTM to model the long-term growth trends
of a cascade, and then utilizes 1D CNN to capture the short-term fluctuations. Article content is
modeled by a hierarchical attention network [228]. The final prediction is made by an attentive
fusion of previously learned representations.
Recurrent cascades convolutional network (CasCN) [38] samples a cascade graph as a series of
sequential subcascades and adopts a dynamic multi-directional GCN [93] to learn structural infor-
mation of cascades. The subsequent work [37] addresses the activation prediction and popularity
prediction problems jointly within a deep multi-task learning framework. To that end, attention
and gated mechanisms were utilized, combined with a shared-representation layer, to capture the
spatial-temporal dynamics of cascades. Coupled-GNNs [30] leveraged two specifically designed
GNNs—one for node states and the other one for influence spread—to capture the cascading effect.
More recently, variational cascade graph learning neural networks (VaCas) [250] integrated
graph wavelets, hierarchical variational autoencoders, and Bi-GRUs to learn the structures of cas-
cade graphs. Both node- and cascade-level diffusion uncertainties, as well as the contextualized
user behaviors, were modeled in an end-to-end deep learning framework.
There are some works focusing on different aspects of performance improvement. For exam-
ple, KB-PPN [247] leverages the embeddings of knowledge base entities and their neighbors to
enhance the popularity prediction based on a LSTM network. FOREST [221] first learns an RNN-
based microscopic cascade prediction model, and then performs a series of simulations guided by
reinforcement learning to predict the macroscopic popularity of observed cascades.
5.1
Discussion: Strengths and Limitations of Deep Learning Models
Table 7 summarizes the deep learning-based cascade models and their main building blocks. Gen-
erally, these works learn different aspects of information item/cascade with various deep learning
techniques, e.g., capturing the long-term dependencies of time series and temporal characteristics
of participation/citations with an RNN or its variants; learning representations of texts and images
via deep language and visual models; dealing with graph-structured data by unsupervised network
embedding [27] or (semi-supervised) graph neural networks [251]. Compared to feature-based
models, which depend on hand-crafted features (platform-specific and rely on prior knowledge),
or generative models, which assume hard-coded diffusion protocols (lack of flexibility and also rely
on human designs), deep learning models do not require heavy feature engineering and can cap-
ture non-linear representations of both user/item content and popularity accumulation trend. The
success of deep learning in other domains seems to be continued in information cascade modeling,
more and more approaches adopted techniques from deep learning and achieved state-of-the-art
results. The main strength of deep learning models lies in their relatively simple architecture (deep
stacked layers with little human designs) and powerful learning ability via backpropagation under
supervision (with massive data and computational resources) [111].
However, despite their improvements on the prediction performance, deep learning models still
face many limitations. One main drawback of deep learning models is the lack of model inter-
pretability owing to the “black-box” nature of neural networks. The computational cost of deep
learning models is significantly larger than feature-based and generative models. The model tun-
ing process, hyper-parameter selection, risk of overfitting, and so on, sometimes cause a lot of
efforts for engineers to obtain the satisfactory performance.
6
OPEN CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES
We now discuss some challenges and aspects that have not been sufficiently studied in cascade
modeling and information diffusion prediction.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 54, No. 2, Article 27. Publication date: March 2021.
