Adaptive Alpha    Fixed Alpha    Bernoulli Sequence

       1.0    Nvidia                                     AMD
    Level
      Coverage 0.80.6
    Local
       0.4


       1.0    BlackBerry                                                 Fannie Mae
    Level
      Coverage 0.80.6
    Local 0.4


           2005                     2010                     2015                     2020               2000           2005           2010           2015           2020
                                                Time

Figure 2: Local coverage frequencies for adaptive conformal (blue), a non-adaptive method that holds
αt = α ﬁxed (red), and an i.i.d. Bernoulli(0.1) sequence (grey) for the prediction of stock market
volatility with conformity score ˜St. The coloured dotted lines mark the average coverage obtained
across all time points, while the black line indicates the target level of 1 −α = 0.9.


interval width can be used to obtain smaller prediction sets [e.g. 28, 29, 20, 12]. Adaptive conformal
inference can work with any conformity score St(·) and quantile function ˆQt(·) and thus can be
directly combined with other improvements in conformal inference to obtain shorter intervals. One
important caveat here is that the lengths of conformal prediction sets depend directly on the quality
of the ﬁtted regression model. Thus, to obtain smaller intervals one should re-ﬁt the model at each
time step using the most recent data to build the most accurate predictions. This is exactly what we
have done in our experiments in Sections 2.2 and 6.

In addition to this, the choice of St(·) can also have a direct effect on the coverage properties of
adaptive conformal inference. Theorems 4.1 and 4.2 show that the performance of adaptive conformal
inference is controlled by the size of the shift in the optimal parameter α∗t across time. Moreover,
α∗t itself is in one-to-one correspondence with the 1 −α quantile of St(Xt, Yt). Thus, the coverage
properties of adaptive conformal inference depend on how close St(Xt, Yt) is to being stationary.

For a simple example illustrating the impact of this dependence, note that in Section 2.2 we formed
prediction sets using the conformity score
                                                 |Vt −ˆσ2t |
                                    St :=               .
                                                             ˆσ2t
An a priori reasonable alternative to this is the unnormalized score
                                                      ˜St := |Vt −ˆσ2t |.
However, after a more careful examination it becomes unsurprising that normalization by ˆσ2t  is
critical for obtaining an approximately stationary conformity score and thus ˜St leads to much worse
coverage properties. Figure 2 shows the local coverage frequency (see (4)) of adaptive conformal
inference using ˜St. In comparison to Figure 1 the coverage now undergoes much wider swings away
from the target level of 0.9. This issue can be partially mitigated by choosing a larger value of γ that
gives greater adaptivity to the algorithm.

6  Real data example: election night predictions

During the 2020 US presidential election The Washington Post used conformalized quantile regression
(CQR) (see (1) and Section 1.1) to produce county level predictions of the vote total on election night
[13]. Here we replicate the core elements of this method using both ﬁxed and adaptive quantiles.


                                       9
