Adaptive Alpha  Fixed Alpha   Bernoulli Sequence

     Level 0.900


           0.875
       Coverage

           0.850
     Local



           0.825

                               500                      1000                      1500                      2000
                                   Time

Figure 3: Local coverage frequencies of adaptive conformal (blue), a non-adaptive method that holds
αt = α ﬁxed (red), and an i.i.d. Bernoulli(0.1) sequence (grey) for county-level election predictions.
Coloured dotted lines show the average coverage across all time points, while the black line indicates
the target coverage level of 1 −α = 0.9.


To make the setting precise, let {Yt}1≤t≤T denote the number of votes cast for presidential candidate
Joe Biden in the 2020 election in each of approximately T = 3000 counties in the United States.
Let Xt denote a set of demographic covariates associated to the tth county. In our experiment Xt
will include information on the make-up of the county population by ethnicity, age, sex, median
income and education (see Section A.6.1 for details). On election night county vote totals were
observed as soon as the vote count was completed. If the order in which vote counts completed was
uniformly random {(Xt, Yt)}1≤t≤T would be an exchangeable sequence on which we could run
standard conformal inference methods. In reality, larger urban counties tend to report results later
than smaller rural counties and counties on the east coast of the US report earlier than those on the
west coast. Thus, the distribution of (Xt, Yt) can be viewed as drifting throughout election night.

We apply CQR to predict the county-level vote totals (see Section A.6.2 for details). To replicate
the east to west coast bias observed on election night we order the counties by their time zone with
eastern time counties appearing ﬁrst and Hawaiian counties appearing last. Within each time zone
counties are ordered uniformly at random. Figure 3 shows the realized local coverage frequency over
the most recent 300 counties (see (4)) for the non-adaptive and adaptive conformal methods. We
ﬁnd that the non-adaptive method fails to maintain the desired 90% coverage level, incurring large
troughs in its coverage frequency during time zone changes. On the other hand, the adaptive method
maintains approximate 90% coverage across all time points with deviations in its local coverage level
comparable to what is observed in Bernoulli sequences.


7  Discussion

There are still many open problems in this area. The methods we develop are speciﬁc to cases where
Yt is revealed at each time point. However, there are many settings in which we receive the response
in a delayed fashion or in large batches. In addition, our theoretical results in Section 4.2 are limited
to a single model for the data generating distribution and the special case where the quantile function
ˆQt(·) is ﬁxed across time. It would be interesting to determine if similar results can be obtained in
settings where ˆQt(·) is ﬁt in an online fashion on the most recent data. Another potential area for
improvement is in the choice of the step size γ. In Section 2.1 we give some heuristic guidelines
for choosing γ based on the size of the distribution shift in the environment. Ideally however we
would like to be able to determine γ adaptively without prior knowledge. Finally, our experimental
results are limited to just two domains. Additional work is needed to determine if our methods can
successfully protect against a wider variety of real-world distribution shifts.


                                       10
