A Survey of Datasets and Tasks for Information Diffusion                                                                   Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA

traditional media’s linear paths, new media operates in a network       comment) between a news item 𝑝∈𝑉𝑃and its engagement
pattern, where nodes represent users or content and edges de-        elements such as users or between two engagement elements.
note their relationships. Thus, we can organize user and content
attributes based on these nodes and edge relations. From these per-          Table 1: Notations of the concepts in the datasets
spectives, six key attributes assess information diffusion data: user
information, propagation content, bot label, veracity label, social
                                                          Symbol                    Description
network, and diffusion network. These attributes facilitate dataset
comparisons, as shown in the dataset analysis and Table 2, with       𝑈= {𝑢1,𝑢2, ...}               User set
corresponding notations in Table 1.                               𝑦𝑈∈{0, 1}                  Bot label
                                              𝐺𝑆= {𝑉𝑈, 𝐸𝑆}                  Social network
                                            𝑃= {𝑝1, 𝑝2, ...}               Content set2.2.1   Attributes for user. The attribute information in the user sets
                                                          𝑦𝑃∈{0, 1}                     Veracity labelinvolves user information, and bot label of each user, and static social
                                          𝐺𝐷= {𝑉, 𝐸𝐷}, 𝑉= {𝑉𝑈,𝑉𝑃}   Diffusion networknetwork among users.
• User information: Each user 𝑢has their user information, includ-
  ing a basic user profile with a combination of semantic infor-
  mation (user description) and property information (numerical    3  Information diffusion prediction
  and categorical data), and optionally user historical information
                                                       The prediction of information diffusion is used to forecast future  (posts and user engagements).
                                                                   propagation paths, users, and effects. In terms of output scale, infor-• Bot label: There are two types of user accounts: human-operated
                                                             mation diffusion prediction can be focused on two directions [25]:  accounts and AI-controlled social bots accounts, requiring a bot
                                                                macroscopic information diffusion prediction (Sec. 3.1), which pre-   label 𝑦𝑈to denote a social bot user (1) or a human user (0).
                                                                            dicts the general situation of a social group or the entire environ-• Social network: Among the user nodes set𝑉𝑈, static relationships
                                                               ment, and microscopic information diffusion prediction (Sec. 3.2),  are denoted as the edges set 𝐸𝑆, such as follower/followee rela-
                                                         which predicts the behavior of individual users during the diffu-
  tionships, friendships, and co-authorships, which constitute the
                                                                       sion process. We will elaborate on these directions through specific   social network 𝐺𝑆.
                                                                       subtasks, providing their definitions, associated datasets, and rep-
                                                                        resentative methods.
2.2.2   Attributes for content. The attribute information in the con-
tent sets involves propagation content and veracity label of each     3.1  Macroscopic information diffusion
content, and dynamic diffusion network among users and its re-         prediction
posts/comments.
                                                      From a macroscopic view, propagation content diffuses widely• Propagation content: Each content 𝑝published by users through
                                                                over time, leading users to form different perceptions based on
  media, such as posts, news, papers and comments, has its propa-
                                                                     the information received. For the contents, current prediction prob-
  gation content including texts/images/videos, tags, URLs, etc.
                                                               lems focus on anticipating graph-based cascade size [1, 25, 26] and• Veracity label: Propagation content contains both normal infor-
  mation and false misinformation, requiring a veracity label 𝑦𝑃      content-based popularity [32–34]. For user groups, the prediction
                                                            problem involves forecasting user attitudes [31]. Thus, there are
  to denote misinformation (1) or normal information (0). In ru-
                                                                    three subtasks in macroscopic information diffusion prediction:
  mor detection, this label sometimes is fine-grained in particular
                                                                 cascade size prediction, popularity prediction, and user attitudes
  papers.
                                                                          prediction.• Diffusion network: Within a propagation content, dynamic rela-
                                                                      Greater user engagement with a post indicates higher attention.
  tionships revealing propagation paths are generated by user en-
                                                                       Predicting the future number of participants (cascade size) reflects  gagement behaviors among user or content nodes𝑉= {𝑉𝑈,𝑉𝑃},
                                                                     the level of concern for the post. Cascade size prediction estimates  denoted as the edges set 𝐸𝐷, which constitute the diffusion net-
                                                                     the scale of information cascades by forecasting the total number of  work 𝐺𝐷.
                                                                     users engaged in the cascade [25]. Some popular content receives   Diffusion network edges 𝐸𝐷can be further divided into the
                                                                      extensive views and is widely spread, while much content garners
following three types based on whether nodes represent users or
                                                                                                little attention. Besides user numbers, the content itself can indicate
contents in different tasks.
                                                               a post’s popularity. Therefore, popularity prediction forecasts
• For user-to-user interactions in information diffusion prediction,
  the edges 𝐸𝐷1 represent the interaction relationships (click/ like/      online posts’ popularity scores as a regression problem by analyzing
                                                              multimodal propagation content (text, image, and video), spatio-  repost/ comment/ citation) between two users 𝑢∈𝑉𝑈who
                                                               temporal data, and user information [32]. Additionally, harmful
  publish the propagation content.
                                                                    content like can evoke negative emotions in users, leading to social
• For content-to-content interactions in rumor detection, the edges
  𝐸𝐷2 represent the interaction relationships (repost/ comment/     and economic chaos [5]. To understand these effects, user attitudes
                                                                prediction assesses crowd attitudes during rumor propagation by   citation) between a post 𝑝∈𝑉𝑃and its repost/comment or
                                                              modeling rumor dynamics [31].
  between two reposts/comments.
• For content-to-user interactions in fake news detection, the edges       3.1.1   Definition. Let 𝑈be the set of users and 𝑃be the set of
  𝐸𝐷3 represent the engagement relationships (click/ like/ repost/       posts. User engagement behavior can generate a cascade sequence
